[00:00:00.000] - Chris
Wow. How many of you have listened to the Head, Heart, and Boots podcast? I can't tell you that react, how much that means to us. Welcome back to the Head, Heart, and Boots podcast. I'm Chris.

[00:00:11.390] - Brandon
And I'm Brandon. Join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses we lead. This new camera angle makes my arms look smaller than yours.

[00:00:21.040] - Chris
I'm noticing that and I really appreciate it. I thought you did that on purpose.

[00:00:24.410] - Brandon
No, I don't. I didn't, and I am not happy with it. Hey, all, thanks so much for listening to the show. Hey, if you're not already following, please do so and ultimately share, right? Like the coolest currency that we have in terms of supporting this is share it with a friend, share it with somebody, a colleague, a peer, one of your downline team members. Let them be able to take advantage of the information you're already leveraging in your favor. And finally, guys, if you hear a show that really moves you, that really moves the needle, will you please leave us a review? Those five-star reviews help us a ton.

[00:00:58.270] - Chris
Right on. And listen, if When you're trying to grow your business, you might consider checking out Floodlights' business opportunity audit. It's free. We provided it no charge. It's actually what we use to assess new clients as they come in. It's a 110 point assessment for your business. We've now decided to give access to the general public for it. So go and take our business opportunity audit at floodlightgrp. Com. It's going to help you identify the biggest gaps and opportunities in your business right now. And at the end, it'll assign you a health score to let you know exactly where your business stands right now. So go check it out, floodlightgrp. Com/audit, and take the Boa. It's a great way to get a pulse on your business.

[00:01:38.750] - Brandon
Well, Amigo, how are you doing, man?

[00:01:41.070] - Chris
I'm doing really good. I had a very good morning. I ended up hunting An earlier morning meeting I had scheduled, stupidly, right? It's the day after fourth of July. We were out at fireworks at our friend's house until midnight. But fortunately, my counterpart that I was having the meeting with was very friendly about it. And so I got to have a slow morning with Kara. And honestly, is one of the best things for me. Here's my perfect morning routine. My perfect morning routine is I get up roughly 5:15, 5:20. I go make an electrolyte water. I put the powder in the glass, put some ice in, fill up the big jar, like the Mason jar with water. I go out to the sauna, 20 minutes in the sauna, 3 minutes in the cold plunge. I stand I move around on my deck while I reheat in the morning sun, and then I go have coffee with my wife. Then depending on how much bandwidth I have that morning, I'll have breakfast after that and then head to the office. That is my perfect morning right there.

[00:02:43.300] - Brandon
Yeah. It's like, how many mornings do you get that, though?

[00:02:46.720] - Chris
Not enough, but it's just like, I mean, I struggle with that sometimes, right? Because I also find that if I go to the gym in the morning instead of in the afternoon, that also lends itself toward a really good day. I tend to think like, okay, I can't do it all all at once. I think at some point in another generation of the business, I feel like that would be a good priority for me. It's like if I could have my formal meetings not start until, say, 10:00 AM, I I feel like I'm best formatted for early morning self-management. Like a 10:00 to 4:00 schedule as an owner and doing owner things and owning and running a company would be an ideal schedule for me. In into perpetuity. Get up in the morning, have connection time with family, connection time with myself, spend some time in the sauna, do my things, go exercise. And then I'm at 100% and I'm dialed. I'm ready to engage. But of course, we're not... That's not the season we're in yet.

[00:03:50.350] - Brandon
No. Yeah. I get it, though. I mean, the morning routine thing is, I think it is important. I think we can turn it into another version of our daily to-do of the list, which can be, I think at times, rob its value. But there's something to be said about starting intentionally and then reaping the benefit of that throughout the rest of the day. For sure, man. For sure. I've been on a kick where I'm doing a little bit more morning exercise and running. There is value of doing it first thing in the morning versus waiting until the afternoon. One, it seems like I'm more consistent in actually executing, but I think the other thing is I just get some of the benefits throughout my workday that help quite a bit. But yeah, speaking of that, man, topic-wise, obviously, the last couple of days, you had referenced that you're wrestling with some stuff. I thought, we're doing a little roadshow, right? You and I are traveling individually for the holidays family for the four of us. I just wanted to see if you had a wherewithal to go through that topic a bit and see what we could ultimately share with our audience as you wrestle with whatever the last several days have looked like.

[00:04:58.470] - Brandon
Are you cool to do that?

[00:04:59.600] - Chris
Yeah. Yeah, I am. I feel like... I think there's all these stages of life, right? Last night, I was reflecting on just how good of a life I feel like Cara and I have been able to put together over the last few years. When I say good of a life, where our life's at right now, it's something like when my wife and I will hug or kiss, we have those moments. Sometimes I'll just say that really quietly. I'm like, Man, we have a good life. We'll say that to each other sometimes. It's just It's just this affirmation that right now is really good. I feel like I've spent a lot of my life yearning for... Because I tend... I'm built like a visionary. I'm always thinking about what could be, but there's always this should be component that's been built into it, like comparison making between where others are at. I think that comes from this competitive spirit that's also in me of seeing others' achievements and thinking And I can do that. And I should do. And then it becomes, and I should. I should be able to. I should have already. I should be where they are.

[00:06:08.480] - Chris
You know what I'm saying? And I get this future orientation that, one, it drives me, but then I also find it also feeds this depression that sometimes I can fall into. And it's funny, the depression is rarely about the business or achievements. It's about my personal connections and with my family, my kids, and my wife, and where I think what it is is that the way I described it to my wife the other morning was, I just feel like I'm constantly putting out, like constantly giving... And, of course, this is my ego. This is the other thing I recognize is that it's me telling myself I deserve, I'm entitled to. Of all the things I... And so I can get in this head space where I'll have a series of interactions with my kids where I just feel like I'm constantly giving and putting out. I'm trying to be present. I'm trying to be a good dad. I feel like I'm being really intentional with my thought life, going home to my family and stuff like that, and just putting in the work and just giving the effort of really trying to be present and give money and all the things that are involved with being married and having children.

[00:07:27.700] - Brandon
Yeah.

[00:07:28.220] - Chris
And just feeling overwhelmed. It's cyclically. I mean, lately, it feels like it's every two or three weeks, maybe once a month, I fall into this head space of, God, who's taking care of me lately?

[00:07:42.780] - Brandon
Yeah. It's funny how I think that that's probably the... If we're honest with ourselves, I feel like as a business owner, that's probably a state that we exist in often, especially if you're a team that's got a fairly sizable team, where you're really starting to have quite a bit of employee engagement engagement, just out of sheer numbers, where you live in a pretty consistent space, I would say, where intentions are right. We just don't come across very many owners that are intentionally wicked. We make mistakes. But they're always... They normally come from the right intention. They normally come from the right purpose, the right place. And it does feel often as a business owner, as an employer, where you're in this same position where there's this constantly giving, you're constantly thinking about, okay, pay raises, pay conditions, packages. What am I doing to provide, make concessions, bend a little bit with rules and accountability because we're trying to be cognizant to the relationship and flex to the needs of our people. At the same time, it can feel as if a lot of the times as a business owner, that stuff just falls on deaf ears.

[00:08:55.520] - Brandon
There's always four more asks in the alleyway waiting to take your attention versus staff lined up to tell you how thankful they are for everything you've done and provided for them. I think that's a space that we probably as entrepreneurs, exist in often as well. That to me, parallels, I think, what you're saying from a personal family-oriented perspective.

[00:09:18.610] - Chris
Yeah. Somehow it feels more personal when it comes to those family connections, right? Because I think I've talked about this before, when we gave that keynote the heart of the matter. We were just talking about how... In my story that I share there, just how there's this... And so much effort creating some a professional identity. You know what I mean? That you maintain. And I feel like as I've gotten older, you and I've talked about this a lot. I've been really working hard to dismantle that professional identity and just be a single person and just try to really occupy the same head space and and posture as I do with work and our clients and our team as I do with my wife, my kids, my friends and everything else. I become more integrated. I remember early in my life, though, right? I was really good at hitting the achievement buttons and stuff to get the accolades from clients, business colleagues, and all the things. And it would fill my cup. But then I'd come home to my kids and my wife, right? And they're the ones who They're the ones who really know me.

[00:10:32.510] - Chris
They're the ones I come home and I've spent myself just cultivating this professional life and this career and this identity that other people know me by. And then I let my hair down. And then my frustration often comes out and all the things. And then the way that my kids and my wife react or respond to me feels like the real judgment of who I am. You know what I mean? Oh, yeah. There was a lot of times where, and rightfully so, my wife, I'd go home and I'd drive past my billboards with my face on it, driving back from my office. And there's some level inside where, especially if the business had a good day, there's a part of me that feels like hot shit. And then I come home, and oftentimes on those same days, my wife's like, You know what? I'm not impressed. I It depends. Anyway, that's more yester years, I feel like, in terms of how my head space operated. I think about my state farm days in particular. But there is a reality to that where it's like the people closest to us know us the best. And when they don't react a certain way or whatever, it just feels more personal.

[00:11:50.650] - Chris
And I feel like it... Yeah. Yeah. And I've got two teenagers now, and they need different things from me. And in In some ways, they're way more independent. In other ways, their needs seem a lot heavier and bigger in terms of emotional and financial and all that stuff. And man, I just like you asked about the last few days, because I know I messaged you and I'm like, man, I've just been in a little bit of a depression fog where it's been really hard to get the best out of myself at the office and in my meetings and stuff like that. And I think it's just... I was just in that space of, man, I feel like I'm... I just I feel like I'm putting out, putting out, putting out, putting out. And when I'm asking for things, whether it be my son finally mowing the lawn, like we agreed to, like literally years ago, this is one of your single tasks, bro. And I'm sure some people listening can relate. We're like, my kids, he's a really good kid. And his priority is not being a high functioning member of our household and our family right now.

[00:12:59.900] - Chris
His priority is, figuring out his own life, being with his friends, doing all those things. And I know that. And it's like, I'm like, he's freaking 16. It doesn't mean he shouldn't have responsibilities And it's not a reflection on me. Yeah, right. And yet, there's this feeling that's just this starts to take over of, fuck. And I was getting caught up in that. So It's a combination of things that helped me get loose of that. When did we have that conversation? I mean, it feels weird because it's a holiday, right? It's Friday today. It feels like it's Saturday or Sunday. But yes, it was Monday, Tuesday. Yeah. So Wednesday I mean, a friend, I don't know if it was a friend's Instagram or if it was a conversation that I had previously had with a friend. And he was just talking about this mantra that sometimes he says in his morning quiet time. It's just, oh, Oh, no, I know what it is. There's this Larry Janesky. I shared this with you, an album. Larry Janesky is a general contractor, entrepreneur, owns a couple of other service companies, is famous in the remodeler. He's one of those guru leads.

[00:14:19.190] - Chris
He's like Tommy Melo, right? Is he the roofing guy? Is he the garage door guy or something anyway?

[00:14:24.510] - Brandon
Garage door guy, yeah.

[00:14:26.190] - Chris
Yeah, he's like a Tommy Melo, but in the home remodeler industry. One of my buddies is a remodeler and is really into his stuff and just uses some of his material as a morning meditation. You'll also listen to it with his young boys. Anyway, he has this whole album and it's really good. For people listening the music. Have you listened to it yet, dude? No. Okay. The music that it's set to, so it's like a spoken word album. And you can think of it as like, if any of you've heard recordings of Tony Robbins, it can feel a little bit cheesy and hard to settle into and really take the material for what it is. God, as I've been getting older, I find a lot of value in that stuff. If I can get past, my ego can get past the cheesiness of some of it and I can really just focus in on the words, it's really useful. Anyway, this Larry Janesky album is called Masterpiece, and you can find it on Spotify and Apple Music and all the things. And there's this one line in one of the tracks where he talks about every day.

[00:15:32.680] - Chris
And it's a reminder. All of us know this, but he's like, Every day is a new beginning. It's a new life. Yeah. And I just have this from that. I just have this meditation every now, and then I'll be reminded of, and I'll do it when I'm in the sauna where it's just new day, new life. New day, new life. But I'm so... Like our egos, Eckart Tolle in the book A New Earth, which I just love, and it's been really helpful for me, is he just talks about how our egos are always pointing forward or backward. Our egos cannot be present in the now. And it's what it creates so much problems for us in our relationships and the way we approach our work and everything else is that our egos are always pulling us into the future. We're always pulling us into the past and then driving our thoughts and fixating our thoughts on either going to the past about what happened to us and putting us into a victim mindset or harkening back because we're in pain into better days and fixating on those days gone by, right? Or what should be, what we want, and what we desire, and just pulling us into the future, right?

[00:16:41.860] - Chris
And a lot of suffering is created in that space. And so anyway, on Wednesday morning, I was just in the sauna in the cold plunge, and that was the mantra. And it felt like it was really helpful to recenter me and pull me out of that funk, get me out of the cloud of darkness that I felt like I was in the first couple of days of the week. So that's what's been going on. And then it just continues. You made a comment to me when I texted you that. You said, you're probably still processing your dad's death. And I think that's true. I think I didn't know what to expect with my dad's death. There are so many things about the experience of being able to be there when he died, and that it felt so healthy, and I felt a lot of closure at the time. The month or so leading up to his memorial, so many people were asking me how I was doing and how I was feeling. And honestly, I wasn't terribly sad. I was having these moments where my instinct was to call my dad. I still have that.

[00:17:43.860] - Chris
In fact, yesterday, I had a moment where I'm like, God, normally right now, I would call my dad and I chat about this thing with my dad. Yeah. And so that was hard. Or I don't know if it was hard. It was just one of those, yeah, just recognizing, yeah, there's this There's a void there. I think that adds weight. I think you're right. I think that's amplified a lot of those feelings of being depressed or feeling unappreciated. When I would feel that way in the last few years, I'd go through a cycle like that. I'd call my dad. My dad could relate. Yeah, for sure. I feel like most men can relate, but we don't want to sound like a bitch. We don't want to be a bitch. I think that's part of our culture is that men are supposed to be quiet in our suffering. I think in some ways there's wisdom in that. I don't think we have to air that out all the time. And yet I don't think in our culture, men have a place to air that out. We have on a rhythm of life where we howl at the moon and we get together and we let go of that stuff or move through that stuff.

[00:18:56.870] - Chris
Yeah. And so for me, I wine and bitch to my dad about, Hey, I just feel like, God, everybody's taking from me. And when I would talk to him, he's like, okay, I get it. He's like, I get it. Yeah, I felt like that. And of course, I was the source of that at one point. I was the 16-year-old, or I was always asking for money or needing this or needing problem solving around that. And of course, I know it's a fundamental part of marriage, too. And my dad had been through that. And so I think all those things were going on, man. Liftify. Com/bloodlight. You've heard Brandon and I talk a bunch of times about the importance of Google reviews. Maybe even heard our episode with Zack Garrett The CEO and founder. Recency, consistency, two of the most important things when it comes to maximizing the benefit from your Google reviews. Why not use an outside partner? Liftify is targeting 20 to 25 % conversion, right? So if you do a thousand 10 jobs a year, you ought to be adding right now 200 to 250 reviews a year, every single year. If you're not doing that, you owe it to yourself to get a free demo from liftify.

[00:20:10.470] - Chris
Com. See their system, see how it works, see how affordable it is. I promise you, you'll thank us. Liftify.

[00:20:18.450] - Brandon
Com/bloodlight.

[00:20:19.580] - Brandon
We spend a lot of money and a lot of attention trying to get that first call. And one of the things that we do once it happens is, sometimes we leave it to chance, right? Who picks up the phone? How do respond? How do they walk that client into a relationship with us? Well, one of the benefits of partnering with a team like answerforce. Com is we can systemize that, we can make it more consistent. We can also have backup for when our teams need that help. Somebody goes on vacation, somebody's out sick. We get a storm surge, we get cat event. All sorts of things can have an impact on how we receive that client. But the most important thing is they need to know that they've chosen the right team. And so answerforce. Com can support you, be a bolt on partner to help you consistently produce an awesome onboarding experience with that first call with your client. So answerforce. Com/bloodlight.

[00:21:10.760] - Chris
That's great. Cnr magazine, we're friends with all the folks at CNR. Michelle and her team, they do a great job of keeping their ear to the ground and reporting all the important information from our industry. You want to stay up on all the M&A activity and what the latest best practices are for selling your company successfully? She's got that. Great articles about all the four quadrants of our business. Cnr is constantly pushing out great material and leveraging great writers and subject matter experts in our industry. It is the water-cooler of our industry. So if you're not subscribed, go to cnrmagazine. Com. Follow them on LinkedIn, follow Michelle on LinkedIn. Trust us, if you're trying to stay on top of everything happening in the industry, your best destination is cnrmagazine. Com.

[00:21:55.530] - Brandon
You guys, many of you have already heard about Actionable Insights and the training and the technical expertise that they bring to the industry. But how many of you are already leveraging the Actionable Insights profile for Xactimate? That's the game changer. It's essentially an AI tool that's walking alongside of you as you write your estimate, bringing things to your attention that should be added, that could be considered. All of them, items that increase our profitability, increase the effectiveness and the consistency of that scope. And it can do anything from helping a new team member assimilate some estimating best practices. It also helps the grizzled vets add back that few % that we've just forgot over time. So actionableinsights, getinsights. Org/ floodlight, and take a look at what the Actionable Insights Xactimate profile could be doing for you and your team?

[00:22:50.350] - Brandon
It's the layers, right? We've been thinking about this actually, coincidentally, quite a bit because Wayne and I have been doing some leadership stuff with of the teams, he's been leading a lot of it, which has been really maybe a discussion in and of itself in terms of how empowering that is and how it's been really fun to watch him take a more leader-based seating some of that curriculum delivery because he's just so talented. I think as part of that, when we were doing these leadership training modules for some of our teams, we ended up breaking the curriculum up into these three phases of lead oneself, lead others, leading up as a reference or a nod to Jocos leading up the chain of command. One of the things that relevant a theme that holds true no matter what phase of content that we're in in regard to the self, others, and up is this need to be really focused on awareness in the moment. Because when we're not present in the moment, it removes some of the tools that we have in our toolkit to maintain a good relationship to what and how we're feeling and how it's impacting what goes around us.

[00:24:00.540] - Brandon
And then obviously the types of conversations, the direction we take conversations with our people. I think that that's part of what you're talking about is that when we can take inventory, and I think not a sign of value, but just think first from this place of avoid right, wrong, or indifference and just say, this is a thing right now. This thing's at play. This relationship is at play. This vibe I have because of circumstances in my life at home, around the business and strategic partnerships, wherever they may lie, they're affecting how I'm feeling and carrying myself right now. And then inevitably, then that will have an impact on my conversation sessions today, later this afternoon, tomorrow morning. And if we're not acutely aware and dialed in and present to, these things are happening, they're having an effect on me. Where am I going mentally right now? Am I looking in the past and am I stuck on something that I wish to could have happened that didn't happen? Where am I right now mentally? And is there a way for me then to become more present to the moment and allow that then to change the way that I'm going to interact and the way that I'm thinking about the situation or feel about the situation?

[00:25:19.360] - Brandon
I think that's part of what you're doing right now. I think there's not an answer per se. It's just the fact that when these things come up, you're reflecting pausing in it. You're not just being a zombie and allowing the emotion to drive your behavior with no conscious thought, no after-action review, no look in the mirror. Was that? Is this right? Should I be doing... You know what I mean? Does that make sense? It went off a little bit, but I I think that's one of the things I admire about you that is, I don't know that we ever land the plan on what's the right course of action. The only thing I can lean into is the right course of action is just being conscientious of the fact that this shit is having effect. And with that, I can do something with it. You know what I mean?

[00:26:04.150] - Chris
Well, I think the other piece, too, that's become more and more important to me, I guess, or a part of the solution is, yeah, I have to... The more quickly I guess, I'm able to recognize what's going on inside me and be able to put some words or definition to it of what is driving this feeling? Where's this coming from? Why am I feeling this way? I think it's also become important, and you and I've talked about this a number of times, in my marriage in particular, I think one of the things that my wife and I have recommitted ourselves to is honesty in really, really, really trying to tell the truth with in a gentle way. But I think the mistake that we made for a lot of our marriage is we were aware of where the minefields lie, and we would be honest insofar as we weren't potentially approaching a mine. And then we would adeptly navigate around the mine and reference the mine. But we would avoid the explosion Ecosians. And I think it probably did our marriage a lot of harm, actually, by those years. I guess maybe, yeah, I think we did do some harm in that, but I think we also just avoided some growth and connection that we We could have had because we found it difficult to be 100% honest with each other.

[00:27:34.490] - Chris
And we both had different mind fields that we were navigating with the other. And so part of the resolve was me feeling the freedom in so much as part of the struggle I was having internally was how just I feel like the reciprocity between my wife and I, whatever the more recent period of time was of me feeling, God, I'm putting out, I'm putting out, I'm putting out, and not getting a lot of return, and just being able to verbalize that to her. And to her credit, she's at a point now where she can hear that and doesn't get... It doesn't turn into an explosion. You know what I mean? It doesn't turn into a mind going off. And both of us losing the leg in the process, where she's able to just hear it and hear what I'm saying and connect to it. And a lot of times we have to wrestle through a little bit of emotion. But I We can get it out. And the same thing with her. There's times, actually, yesterday, yesterday on the holiday, Kara had a thing come up for her. We had a real emotional morning, and ultimately just processed through it together, and we were able to talk through it.

[00:28:45.070] - Chris
I feel like every time we do that, by the end of it, we're better off. But sometimes it feels like we're fire walking in the process.

[00:28:55.010] - Brandon
Yeah.

[00:28:55.770] - Chris
And it's this really intense conversation. But once we move through it, it's like we actually move through that thing, and the thing's not a thing anymore. And that was another part of this depression fog was, is that I had to talk with Kara about it. And I actually plan, because I have some time with the kids this week, and I actually plan on talking to them about... And again, it's not in an accusational way. It's just like, hey, this is how I'm feeling. This is the story in my head. This is the thing that's been going inside me, and I want to share it with you, and you can do whatever you need to with it. But this is what's been going on for me. I'm planning to have that same conversation with my two older kids this weekend when we have time. And that feels like an important part of, I don't know, just the last year or so in particular, of trying to live more honestly. It's messy sometimes, but I feel like I spent the first... My wife and I really spent the first, probably, 15 years of our marriage. But doing this dance of dancing around certain subjects and stuff, just trying to avoid just the messiness of marriage.

[00:30:12.830] - Chris
In the same process, having a really messy, up and down marriage. I don't know. That's just been a revelation to me the last several years is, I don't think you can avoid the ugliness.

[00:30:29.530] - Brandon
Yeah.

[00:30:30.160] - Chris
I just don't think you can, man. No, I don't. In any area of life.

[00:30:34.310] - Brandon
Yeah, it's certainly not sustainably.

[00:30:36.500] - Chris
No.

[00:30:37.970] - Brandon
It's funny what you were talking about that, that whole landmine scenario, and it reminds me of creating solutions versus fighting fires. The reality of it is, you may have identified that landmine was there and walked around it. But what happens when our units got to come back through that territory? Because inevitably, our life is this pattern of zigzagging back and forth between Between these locations and these cycles of development. It's like, inevitably, dude, you're going to have to retrace some steps. You're going to end up back in that minefield. And so I think part of what you're saying is when we take the time to sit in that topic and wrestle with it, create a solution or a better understanding, and we remove it, well, that's one last mind for us to step in again on our return trip, which we know is inevitably coming.

[00:31:24.980] - Chris
Better to throw some grenades in the field in front of you and get your eyebrows singed, right? Yeah. And clear the field.

[00:31:31.960] - Brandon
Yeah. It just feels important.

[00:31:35.600] - Chris
And I think in many ways, dude, some of the greatest moments of truth that you and I have had as business partners have been difficult and uncomfortable. I just don't think any relationship grows and thrives without honesty, like real honesty. Because I think otherwise, you're always reading a person's body language and you know something's not quite right, but you're not digging into it and it affects how you interact with somebody. We've talked about this before with employees. It's all the same. It's like when you've got a problem with an employee, eventually, you're going to start treating them differently, and they're going to know it. They feel it. Every single one of us has felt that. There's a little bit of subtle avoidance. You start to lose eye contact with them when you pass them in the hall because there's something you're frustrated with or disappointed in or whatever. And for whatever reason, you decide to just let it let it simmer and fester instead of just dealing with it. And eventually, it really changes the relationship. And And it becomes a problem. And so anywho. Well, I'm starting to feel a little self-conscious, like a little naked.

[00:32:52.980] - Chris
I think this is maybe a good time for us to land the plane and allow me to put some clothes back on and feel like a professional again.

[00:33:02.230] - Brandon
I think there's sometimes hard side, whether or not we air some of these episodes, right? It's just constant pursuit of value. Is there real value here? I think one of the commitments that you and I made was, look, We said we're going to talk about the whole restore. There's going to be times where there's a tactical element to what we're talking about. There's going to be times where it's more methodical in nature. I think there's just moments where it's totally relevant for us to discuss the mindset or the pitfalls, the friction points that we're actively engaged in in the moment, because the reality of it is we're not alone. We're not the only ones having this experience. There's no doubt in my mind on the backs of holidays that many people this week dealt with similar types of experience relationship dynamic. We're just not alone. I think this is just another layer of us just being committed to, Hey, we're going to throw this stuff out there. We do believe it's relevant. We do believe we're not the only people that face these things. And the value statement is ultimately up for a listener to decide, Yeah, this message was for me today, or this is something I'm wrestling with this week.

[00:34:09.350] - Brandon
So however that lands, is how it lands, man.

[00:34:11.610] - Chris
We meant to transparency, I guess. Yeah. Well, here, let me... That's so funny, man. Here's a hard pivot. All right, folks. So if you enjoy this show, if you enjoy the show and you love listening to Head, Heart, and Boots, there's two ways that you can thank us.

[00:34:29.780] - Brandon
I love it.

[00:34:31.070] - Chris
There's two ways that you can thank us. Share the show with a friend, right? Follow the show. And then if you've been looking for a consultant that can help you process all of your personal depression and individual stress, Just kidding. If you're looking to grow and you're looking for a partner that can help you build your enterprise value, prepare for a sale, a battle buddy, a trench partner to walk with you and your team as you scale and reach for the next horizon in your business. Maybe you're relatively new to the industry. This isn't your first rodeo, but you understand the value of having an outside partner. Best place to start is with our business opportunity audit. It's going to force you to think through areas of your business that maybe you haven't been. Nooks and crannies of your business that are important, but you haven't been paying attention to. And it'll tee up a really value-added conversation with our team to find out, well, legitimately, if a consulting relationship is the right thing for you right now. So start with a business opportunity audit. It's really easy to find floodlightgrp. Com/audit. That's floodlightgrp. Com/audit.

[00:35:42.600] - Chris
Once you fill it out, our team will get notified. We'll get on the phone. We'll have what we call an integration call. And it's not a sales pitch. It's a review of the audit results. And from our experience as a team, identifying where are some potential red flags Health-wise, where are some opportunities for you to shore up your business, stabilize your business, create more health? And then also, where's the low hanging fruit in terms of opportunity for growth? And we'll talk through that. And then if ultimately you want somebody to walk with you through that process, US. That's where we talk about a consulting relationship. But whether or not you end up hiring us as consultants, we've heard from a number of people that there's value in taking the 15 or 20 minutes to go through the audit. So check that out. We call it the Boa business opportunity audit. Again, thank you for listening. Frankly, dude, it's humbling, man. We started this, what, 130 some episodes ago, and we felt so much imposter syndrome. We felt like such I don't know. It was just so weird the first 10 episodes, and here we are.

[00:36:49.600] - Chris
Eighty thousand or so downloads, and it feels like our beard and mustache are all over the internet.

[00:36:55.870] - Brandon
It feels weird, man. Getting grayer. Getting grayer.

[00:36:59.590] - Chris
Two Two plus years of these conversations, and it's just really gratifying. We continue to get text messages and stuff from folks about the shows, and it's humbling, and it's really encouraging. It's fun to put something out in the world and have people care about it and give value from it. So anyways, till next time, everybody. Thanks for listening.

[00:37:22.960] - Brandon
Yeah, we'll see you. All right, everybody.

[00:37:26.900] - Brandon
Hey, thanks for joining us for another episode of Head, Heart, and Boots.

[00:37:30.530] - Chris
If you're enjoying the show, if you love this episode, please hit follow, formerly known as subscribe, write us a review, or share this episode with a friend. Share it on LinkedIn, share it via text, whatever. It all helps. Thanks for listening.
