[00:00:00.000] - Brandon
This intro is a little lackluster. Where's your energy level right now?

[00:00:04.510] - Chris
Well, dude, I was in a cold tank for... Today was five minutes this morning before 6:00 AM. Five minutes? Listen.

[00:00:12.070] - Brandon
Wait, is the water temp up to 68 now?

[00:00:14.680] - Chris
Brandon, I can't stop myself. I'm telling you, bro, I know you. We've no need to... If you do this, I promise you, you will thank me if you get into a cold plunge routine in the morning. It's going to change your mental health. It's going to change. It's been invigorating on day five. I'm on day five. My freaking 12-year-old boy joined me this morning.

[00:00:34.970] - Brandon
Dude, I'm so not sold yet. I'm going to be very transparent with you. I still feel like you're selling Hocus Pocus.

[00:00:42.100] - Chris
It was the best investment I made, second only to my sauna. My wife and I were reflecting on this, actually. We spent five grand on putting that song in. It's not like we're just rolling in $100 bills. It was an investment, and I put it off for a while. I'm like, I don't know about the space, too. But did it.

[00:00:57.890] - Brandon
Yeah, it's a good payment.

[00:00:58.510] - Chris
Seriously, It's one of those things I have friends over. You aren't looking at your freaking phones because your phone will overheat if you're staring at it in there. The phone has to be on the floor. We turn some music on. It is one of the most relaxing, rewarding things I've spent on my property is putting that sauna in. Okay, sauna on which- My kids and my wife, we sit in there and all you can do is sit quietly or talk. I'm serious. It's been one of the best things. In the cold plunge, you're only doing that for a few minutes. But the physical anxiety and mental health benefits. It's really great. Okay, anyways. So today... That was actually in a perfect lead in. It was great. Today, we have Drew Skaggs. Drew Skaggs is a national champion D1 baseball player, Rice University I've never seen. I'm pretty sure they're a D1 school. Anyway, he was a very successful baseball player, a college athlete, a CrossFit certified trainer and gym owner in the area. I happened to go to his gym. I've been there five years, and I really like Drew. I think you'll see in this episode, he's a really cool dude, and we cover the gamut.

[00:02:00.710] - Chris
Mitchell Reilly, by the way, thank you for posting a question or a comment on my LinkedIn Live this morning about the show. It was a great question to open up the show. We talk about what are some of the lived experience benefits that you and I have had in fitness, which other people have heard. I promise that's not the majority of the conversation. Drew gets to talk. But Drew, he gives some really practical advice, including some practical tips for how to think about fitness while you're traveling, because that's been a tricky thing for you and I. Some hotel gyms really awesome, like the one in Austin at the Collective by Core. Freaking awesome gym at the J. W. Marriott. Just a little tip there.

[00:02:37.550] - Brandon
That everything was silly.

[00:02:38.860] - Chris
It's silly good. And then others, it's like there's a treadmill and some plasticated weights from 5 pounds to 20 pounds. It runs the gamut, but he gives some great tips on how you can think about structuring a workout. He gives some tips about motivation and other ways to get more in a habit. We talk about mental health benefits. We talk about food. We talk about meal prep. I think all of it was fairly approachable and actionable.

[00:03:04.620] - Brandon
A hundred %. It might walk away. In fact, it'll be the title. It was just a no BS approach. It was no BS fitness, basically, with Drew Skagg. That's really what it boiled down to, man.

[00:03:14.830] - Chris
It was great. Check it out. Share it with a friend. That's it. Let's go. Wow. How many of you have listened to the Head, Heart, and Boots podcast? I can't tell you that reaction, how much that means to us. Welcome back to the Head, Heart, and Boots podcast. I'm Chris.

[00:03:30.400] - Brandon
And I'm Brandon. Join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses we lead. This new camera angle makes my arms look smaller than yours.

[00:03:40.000] - Chris
I'm noticing that, and I really appreciate it. I thought you did that on purpose.

[00:03:43.290] - Brandon
No, I don't. I didn't, and I am not happy with it. Hey, all, thanks so much for listening to the show. Hey, if you're not already following, please do so and ultimately share, right? Like the coolest currency that we have in terms of supporting this is share it with a friend, share it with somebody, a colleague, a peer, one of your downline team members. Let them be able to take advantage of the information you're already leveraging in your favor. And finally, guys, if you hear a show that really moves you, that really moves the needle, will you please leave us a review? Those five-star reviews help us a ton.

[00:04:17.300] - Chris
Right on. And listen, if you're trying to grow your business, you might consider checking out Floodlights' business opportunity audit. It's free. We provided it no charge. It's actually what we use to assess new clients as they come in. It's a 110 point assessment for your business. And we've now decided to give access to the general public for it. So go and take our business opportunity audit at floodlightgrp. Com. It's going to help you identify the biggest gaps and opportunities in your business right now. And at the end, it'll assign you a health score to let you know exactly where your business stands right now. So go check it out, floodlightgrp. Com/audit, and take the Boa. It's a great way to get a pulse on your business. Well, welcome to the Head Hard Boots podcast, Drew. This has been a long time coming. I mean, it's not that I've been badgering you. You pretty much said yes the very first time you asked. It was more a function of me getting my shit together and finally scheduling you.

[00:05:08.790] - Brandon
You didn't have to talk them into it.

[00:05:10.250] - Chris
No, no, no. You were cool about it from the jump.

[00:05:13.600] - Drew
Patiently waiting for you to ask.

[00:05:15.090] - Chris
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, man. Yeah. Well, the cool thing is I've actually, Brandon and I both have referenced the shop and our experience at your gym. And I've talked many times. I was just reflecting on this this morning in this live cast. I I should tag you up. Do you have a shop LinkedIn profile?

[00:05:33.060] - Drew
I don't think I'm on LinkedIn.

[00:05:34.490] - Chris
We'll do it after we get off the call, and then I'll tag your follow-up post. I've talked often. It's been five... I think it's been about five years since Cara and I joined. Something like that.

[00:05:44.410] - Drew
That sounds right. I know it was before the pandemic.

[00:05:47.640] - Chris
I wrote an industry article in our industry journal called When I Found Myself on the Gym Floor. I don't know if you've seen that. Did I share that article with you?

[00:05:55.520] - Drew
I have not seen that article. Was that from back then or was that more recent?

[00:05:59.610] - Chris
That was back in the day. That was an old location, bro. That was probably first six months. I had some existential moments in those early training days. Yeah, that tends to happen. Anyway, so here we are. I think the focus for the show today, I think one of the things I appreciate, and I commented on this in the LinkedIn Live this morning was, for Kara and I, we've been less connected to a religious church community over the last several years. I think a lot of people, many people are different. As they get older, the kids get older. That becomes more or less a part of their life. And so as we were less connected to that community, we were looking for a new community to be a part of, like people that we're seeing on a regular basis, a friend group and so forth. And in many ways, the shop became that. It's like there's something really awesome about having people where you have some shared values and shared interest that you see on a regular basis, even though we're not getting into existential conversations about God in the universe, typically in the gym. I have friends there, some of them, I just ran into Laura Gannon at Tacover the other night, and she waved us down and asked me about my dad.

[00:07:08.770] - Chris
And there's a real sense of community, I think, that you've helped develop there. And so that's a piece of it that I think often we don't really consider when it comes to our fitness and our wellness. And so I think there's an opportunity for us to maybe talk about that a little bit today. But I really wanted to cover the gamut, but maybe focus through the lens of wellness for business owners. And maybe this is actually a great place to start with Mitchell Reilly's question on LinkedIn. Mitchell is a recruiter in our industry. It runs a recruiting company. It's been a friend of ours. And let me read his question because I think this will get us going in the right trajectory. And then I want to pause and just let you respond, actually, to this with your first thoughts. Mitchell says, This may be more of a time management issue, but I have a small home gym in my garage, mostly free weights. I don't have the time to go to a gym. I'm a single dad of two with a growing business. Suggestions on how to find that consistent drive to work out regularly?

[00:08:00.930] - Chris
And then Prince, he says, Was a team sports guy growing up. Having a group workout would be great, but isn't feasible right now?

[00:08:07.490] - Drew
That's a great question. The first thing that I would suggest is that often people search for the drive or the motivation. They're waiting for motivation before they take action. But a quote that I heard a long time ago and one that's really resonated with me is that you take action first and motivation tends to follow. So in this case, if he has a home gym and it is right there, just right out the door in the garage, maybe find something. It could be a five-minute routine, a 10-minute routine, something where the threshold to getting started is very low, so it's going to happen. And then just start doing that. Put in five minutes, 10 minutes, whatever he's capable of on any given day. And then motivation is going to build the drive to get out there and spend more and more time will build. And then he can augment the routine as he goes.

[00:08:54.950] - Chris
Yeah. You know what this reminds me of? One of my first reactions to that was, I've been a of Mark Sisson, a primal nutrition, made a gazillion dollars, sold at The Hives, I think. The old guy with abs. Yeah. Holy cow. I think he's the guy that all of us, if you've seen Mark Sisson, you're chasing that. You're like, you want to look like that. I think He's freaking like almost 70.

[00:09:16.660] - Drew
I believe he's in his 70s.

[00:09:18.360] - Brandon
Yes.

[00:09:19.460] - Chris
Still has abs, still like all the things. And so he was probably the first guy that motivated me to take on this lifestyle choice. He said he has a hex bar with plates on it. And of course, he lives in Malibu, and so he doesn't have to worry about rain. So he leaves his shit out in the backyard. But he has these places in his backyard where he has a crash pad and he has a hex bar with weights loaded up. And as he walks around his yard in the morning, he'll stop and he'll do a set of twelve deadlifts. And he's got kettlebells that he places around his property and in his home. And he'll bang out a set of 12 or 15 kettlebell swings. And I just thought, man, that makes sense to me in terms of longevity and maintenance, for sure, is just get your body accustomed to having to do that at a moment's notice. That's probably a pretty good fitness principle. And then I also follow Ben Greenfield. And Ben Greenfield, another one of these biohacker guys, performance athletes. And he also talked about that a few years ago, how he'll just have kettlebells.

[00:10:20.950] - Chris
He has several of them just strategically placed at his back door by his patio and one in his rec room in his house and one probably by his in the kitchen, and periodically throughout the day, he'll sling some kettlebell movements and then keep moving throughout his day. And I took that on. And even though I have a gym membership with you and I come regularly, I set up rings on my back deck so I can bang out some ring dips and ring rows and things. And my kids have actually started to adopt that. But that's part of my answer is, get in the custom of doing something every day. Even if it's just banging out a set of 25 pushups while you're waiting for your coffee to brew. That's another thing that I was doing for a while is I'll do 25 pushups before I drink my coffee, allow myself to drink my coffee.

[00:11:11.580] - Drew
Sorry, Brandon. You got young kids, don't you? Yes, I've got a five and a seven-year-old.

[00:11:15.950] - Brandon
Yeah. So you got young hoodlums, and I know Mitchell does, too. How have you incorporated or maybe tied some of that focus of physical fitness in with the kid time? Is it feasible for Mitch to maybe try to do something that almost feels borderline mind, like entertainment with the kids or whatever?

[00:11:33.530] - Drew
Yeah, for sure. So one of the things that I get to do with my kids is I bring them to the shop and they'll run around on the turf, they'll swing on the rings. They don't do any structured exercise. But if they're keeping themselves busy, having fun, I can do something, too. So depending on what Mitchell's garage setup looks like, if there's something that his kids could play on while he does a set of whatever exercise, then, of course, play on safely. In a gym, there's about a million ways a A kid can mess themselves up.

[00:12:02.860] - Brandon
Perfect.

[00:12:03.620] - Drew
Yeah. Chris, to your point, one example that I've heard a lot of people do is those doorway pull-up bars. You can mount it over the door frame. If somebody puts that, let's say they work from home, if somebody puts that in the doorway to their restroom, every time you go to the bathroom for the day, you just do a set of pull-ups. Any given set might only take 10 seconds, 30 seconds, depending on how many pull-ups you can do. But by the At the end of the day, you've done a handful of them, and it's a whole lot more than nothing.

[00:12:33.870] - Brandon
If you just did it, it can say... I do the... Well, I'm up to 40 now.

[00:12:38.060] - Drew
But I did pull-ups?

[00:12:39.230] - Brandon
No, no, no. Fuck, no. Forty push-ups before an hour. I was going to say. Yeah. I do the old head nod in the mirror. We're getting ready to start the day, knock out some push-ups, and then I go into the shower feeling really great about myself. Now, the rest of the day, we're not sure what's going to happen.

[00:12:53.860] - Chris
That's a pretty hot set, dude. 40 in a row? Yeah.

[00:12:56.920] - Brandon
Well, I can't master the pull-up in engagement with you. So the only way that I have any pride is that as long as I can put out more push-ups in a single run, then I've got something to compete with.

[00:13:08.910] - Chris
You got to beat your hands down.

[00:13:10.270] - Brandon
The pull-up scene has gotten largely ridiculous. And, Drew, I blame you because you two are the ones with your matching beards throwing on multiple plates to do pull-ups, and I still can't wrap my head around it, but pretty good.

[00:13:21.120] - Drew
Although I don't like to talk about that because Chris is currently beating me.

[00:13:24.420] - Brandon
Oh, no, no.

[00:13:26.020] - Drew
Sore subject.

[00:13:27.130] - Chris
I really revel in that. I just It really boosts my ego a lot to have at least one thing that I can beat my gym owner in. That's funny. With Mitchell, because I think this is just so great, obviously, they say abs are made in the kitchen, right? And from a nutritional standpoint, can you talk us through your day? Because I know you're an engineer by training. Is that right?

[00:13:52.560] - Drew
That's right.

[00:13:53.090] - Chris
Okay. And that shows itself in a variety of ways as I've gotten to know you better and better over the years. So you have a natural inclination motivation towards structure and order, but you've brought that to a certain degree with your food. But I also know that you F off occasionally and you enjoy some treats. And so it's not as though you're a monk in terms of your eating habits, but you have some order and a daily habit Can you just talk about how you manage food? Because you're a busy guy. You got two young kids. You have a growing business. You have employees that you manage. And you're also very physically fit. That's been a discipline, which I can't say of every gym owner I've encountered. There's a lot gym owners that get caught up in the work of the business, and they let themselves go to a degree. And clearly, it's a value of yours to maintain your fitness level. So talk about your food routines.

[00:14:41.340] - Drew
Sure thing. Yeah, first, you nailed it. My very first core value is deep health. And what that means for me is that the more I take care of my body via exercise, nutrition, things like that, the better I'm able to do everything else in my life. So that comes first, not to the exclusion of everything after, but more to the benefit of everything that comes after that. When it comes to food, you nailed it. I studied chemical and environmental engineering in college, and so I am all about routine structure, optimization, efficiency. Those are my buzz words that are just built into my DNA. And I have a breakfast that I pretty much have every day, and I've done this for going on close to 20 years. I have a lunch that I've had just about every day. It often involves meal prep. I have a protein shake that's every day. And then dinner is where it can fluctuate a little bit. I have a format, which is basically a protein, a veggies, and a starch. And then within those categories, that's where I get a little bit of variety. But beyond that, I really thrive on the repetition and the routine, and I don't need to have something different every day.

[00:15:51.230] - Drew
And I think that's what greatly simplifies my routine and saves me a ton of time. So a lot of what I do is based on meal prep or cooking in bulk. If I'm cooking dinner, I'll double or triple so that I have leftovers for a couple of days. When I make beef and Brusby's, that's a recipe that I came up with. I know you've eaten it, Chris. That literally makes a week of food for me, and I just have it once a day, like clockwork. And with all of those structures built in, I get a ton of protein, a ton of veggies. And then as far as effing off a little bit, there's a little bit of room in every week, and I take full advantage of it. I've been a proponent of the 9010 rule or the 80/20 rule, where if I'm hitting my nutrition on a 90%, even 85 or 80% basis, then whatever happens with the remaining %, fine by me. Yeah.

[00:16:47.570] - Chris
What's your favorite go-to?

[00:16:49.030] - Drew
Cookie butter ice cream from Trader Joe's.

[00:16:51.950] - Chris
Nice. I was pretty certain it was a form of ice cream.

[00:16:55.510] - Drew
Yeah. Cookie butter in particular is just ridiculous.

[00:16:58.860] - Chris
That's the Speculoos? That whole cookie butter sounds. Yes.

[00:17:01.790] - Drew
It's like a ribbon through the ice cream. Oh, man.

[00:17:06.750] - Chris
This is a theme that I've discovered amongst not just CrossFit people, but people that train routinely is the misconception I think a lot of people have is that we're so anal retentive about nutrition. We don't ever consume any carbs and all this stuff. The reality is most of the people I know that train really hard and consistently love food. They love food. It's part of why they have to. It's part of why they love training is it enables them to enjoy foods they love periodically on a regular basis. But a lot of people just think we eat like monks or something, but I definitely do not.

[00:17:41.080] - Brandon
I can hang in this pocket a little bit, Drew, because I may be the opposition to a certain extent. But I'm listening to Chris talk about, you just throw this exercise equipment in random spots throughout your house and your yard. It's awesome. And I'm just being honest, and I'm like, I would never fucking do that. I'm not going to do it because it doesn't hold the same level of probably priority, if I'm honest. I've always admired that about my brother in crime here is that he is very adament about building lifestyle around this, which I think is fantastic. I'm also trying to look at it for our average listener and go, Okay, the concept of meal prepping, the concept of reengineering my house to a certain extent, my yard fixtures to a certain extent, It seems like mentally you've made another tier of commitment. For you to prioritize at that level, there's a different connection with physical fitness, I feel like, versus the average busy person that might be listening to this. Help me, as a layman, understand. I think there's Chris, who's already determined in his lifestyle, this is an epically important thing for him.

[00:18:54.800] - Brandon
But what about the rest of us that just need to begin orienting ourselves around proactive engagement in this stuff, but be more realistic maybe on what's the first phase look like? Does that make sense?

[00:19:07.770] - Chris
I just thought- You're doing a good cop, bad cop here thing. I get it. Yeah.

[00:19:13.030] - Drew
I do understand your question. And I think There's a lot of it depends in that answer. But I think what's most important is that whatever someone tries to do, it should just be incrementally more than what they're currently doing. Let's say that somebody is not performing any form of structured exercise and they're wanting to get in a better shape, maybe lose some weight or build some muscle. If we were to give them a five-day-a-week routine with a meal plan that covered breakfast, lunch, and dinner, that is an excessive amount of change for a single person to make. And while maybe somebody can just white-knuckle through that for a couple of days, after that, it's destined for failure. So the most important thing is that a change can be sustainable It's just this tiny change over what they're currently doing. If somebody's not doing any form of activity, I would say the most accessible thing is walking, just getting their steps in. If they have an office job, if they work from home, I mean, almost no matter what, you can just get out and go for a walk. If you work in an office, you could walk laps around your your office floor, depending on the size of your building, obviously.

[00:20:24.140] - Drew
But that's the simplest way. It doesn't need to be complicated. It doesn't need to require equipment, and it doesn't have to be anything over the top. If somebody is looking to strength train or something like that, then bodyweight exercises are accessible just about anywhere. So things like push-up, sit-ups, air squats, lunges, And what I recommended earlier was just coming up with this very simple routine. So maybe it's the same thing every day. Maybe like Brandon, you said you do your set of push-ups. It doesn't need to be different from day to day because that just adds complexity. Pick a routine, something you like, and just do it. Consistency is going to be the number one thing here.

[00:21:08.220] - Brandon
Yeah, I cycle hard. You know what I mean? I go through these phases where I'm all in 110 %, and then I'll go through phases where I'm lucky to push 60% dedication to it. I know it and I see it. I can very easily compare myself, for instance, with Chris, and I can see where the consistency has paid off. Mentally, I can fuck with him, for lack of a better term. But at the end of the day, his consistency is winning. And there's lots of proof in the pudding from that. And so I think it's just piggyback on what you're saying is anything that we can do to try to do something to create more consistency is overall a better return. I tend to go all in. I nerd out about dumb crap, and then I get overly into it. And it's like the gear, and I'm analyzing the optimal outputs. And the reality of it is, is nine times out of 10, I'm never going to do the stuff that I'm going all nerded out on to the extent that I'm acting like I am, and certainly not for a consistent period of time.

[00:22:03.840] - Brandon
It's almost this element, just reset the expectation. Don't go from zero to hero. Go from zero to different and see what different does, as long as you can maintain different for a consistent period of time.

[00:22:17.640] - Drew
100%, that's a great way to put it, too. We try to share with people that are new to the shop, we try to share with them that consistency is key. Avoid the intensity trap because one great workout is not going to make you strong or fit. But 3-5 workouts a week, every week, for months, for years, that's what's going to transform your life.

[00:22:41.000] - Brandon
It's so important. Before you go off on something else, I don't want to get too far from it. You made a very clear reference, and I think this is really important. You made a clear reference to the fact that for you, the physical fitness is for the other things that you want to be more optimized, more secure in, more efficient and effective in. Can you hang in that for a little bit for us? Because I think one of the things that for me is a challenge is I know things, but experiencing things are different. It's hard to commit when you know something versus when you start to experience something. I really liked the way that you were so crystal clear and unapologetic. At the end of the day, I'm doing this because of these things. Draw that connection for us because I think to a lot of extent, that's the opportunity for us to be motivated to even consider the value of health and fitness beyond it's just good for you. Everybody hears that shit, and then we don't do anything with it anyway. Help me understand what you're saying and how it's being leveraged for these other elements of your life.

[00:23:48.840] - Drew
Sure. I think to help illustrate this, I think we might need to go all the way back to me for the summer before my eighth grade. During that summer, I was an unhappy kid, and my parents were going through a divorce. It was a tough time. I was also a little bit out of shape, we'll call it, for a seventh-year-old, sorry, seventh-grader. That was the first summer that I entered a weight room. I had a very basic routine. It was machines at the local gym, but it completely changed my life. I built confidence. I leaned out. I started adding muscle for the first time at a fairly at a young age. I have been convinced ever since that this was something I needed in my life. That transformative event happened, and I can pinpoint it. I know I can tell you everything about that gym from that year for me. What that translates to later on now, for example, today, I've developed my routine for the day to where I know what time I'm going to get my workout in. But what happens for me is that that's on my mind until I check that box for the day.

[00:25:02.870] - Drew
So until I get my workout in, it's preoccupying mental space, which doesn't allow me to focus on other things. Or knowing that I'm going to get it in allows my brain to free up that space and then focus on more important things like either business or my kids or things like that. There's rarely a day that I miss a workout, but when I do, it's all consuming. It just gets to me.

[00:25:30.800] - Brandon
In terms of, what did it take for you to start making those connections? So obviously, there was this transformative moment where you were experiencing the fitness, and that was fueling your consistency, maybe in your commitment. But as you sit down and say, Oh, wow, this has really had a profound effect on X, walk me through some of those. Give me some examples where you just really are experiencing this change or a better output in these other areas of your life and help us as the audience to make that connection, to be open to the connection, right?

[00:26:04.580] - Drew
Oh, sure. Back then in my seventh grade year, and then all the way through high school and college, I played baseball. Every ounce of effort that I put into the weight room, I could see coming out in terms of output in my baseball career. It's what allowed me to have a very fun, enjoyable, and good high school baseball career. I ended up getting a scholarship to University in Houston, played baseball there for five years while I was studying engineering. We won a national championship. All of those were, I don't want to call them side effects, but they were certainly related to the effort that I put into training. I either saw it in my physical development or just that mindset of committing to something, going all in was translated into sports, academics, things like that. Then once I got into my In my adult years, I had a corporate job a long time ago, long before I opened the shop. That was the way I started my day. I was out in my garage at 5:00 AM every morning, and that set the tone for my day. It allowed me to, I guess, work on my grit, my tenacity, things like that, that I could then go after my day knowing that one of my big rocks had already been fulfilled for that day.

[00:27:25.090] - Brandon
Yeah, it's interesting. I switched to the evening workout piece. I was in the shop, and I liked it. I really loved the community element. I certainly loved being able to be in the same gym with my friend because the competition and the camaraderie is super awesome. But I did also I realized that it didn't work for me because it was at the wrong time of day. I think we all are unique in that way. For me, there's something better for me mentally to get it done and over with in the morning. When I say get it done and over with, that's honestly how I feel about it. The post-event's great, but working up to it, oftentimes the workout itself, I'm not in love with the experience, I'll be honest, but I love afterwards. I love, like you said, I got a big rock. I've done what a lot of people won't do today already. I think more than anything like you said, is it just it motivates me a little differently because I did a hard thing. For a lot of us, if we're honest, you know exactly what I'm saying. Like A lot of us don't love this shit, and you're talking yourself into it all the way until you do that first rep.

[00:28:35.590] - Brandon
The reality of it is the fact that you did that very first thing in the morning equips you to do it over and over and over again all day in all the other areas of our life that we know going into something we're not excited about what we're about to tackle. For me, going back to a morning routine just was right. It was the right fit for me mentally. I like it. I get a return out of it that is aligning with what I want. But I think that's an important connection is it's the whole eat the frog first. What are you going to do that day that you know you've been having some angst around or some anxiety around and knowing how freaking good it feels when you accomplish the first thing of the day that you knew took some mental gymnastics to talk your ass into doing it. I totally relate with that. I think it's been really powerful for me, I know, personally.

[00:29:28.160] - Chris
Liftify. Com/bloodlight. You've heard Brandon and I talk a bunch of times about the importance of Google reviews. Maybe you even heard our episode with Zack Garrett, the CEO and founder. Recency, consistency. Two of the most important things when it comes to maximizing the benefit from your Google reviews. Why not use an outside partner? Liftify is targeting 20 to 25 % conversion, right? So if you do a thousand jobs a year, you ought to be adding, right now, 200 to 250 reviews a year, every single year. If you're not doing that, you owe it to yourself to get a free demo from liftify. Com. See their system, see how it works, see how affordable it is. I promise you, you'll thank us. Liftify. Com/bloodlight.

[00:30:12.440] - Brandon
We spend a lot of money and a lot of attention trying to get that first call. And one of the things that we do once it happens is sometimes we leave it to chance, right? Who picks up the phone? How do they respond? How do they walk that client into a relationship with us? Well, one of the benefits of partnering with a team like answerforce. Com com is we can systemize that, we can make it more consistent. We can also have backup for when our teams need that help. Somebody goes on vacation, somebody's out sick. We get a storm search, we get cat event. All sorts of things can have an impact on how we receive that client. But the most important thing is they need to know that they've chosen the right team. And so answerforce. Com can support you, be a bolt on partner to help you consistently produce an awesome onboarding experience with that first call with your client. So answerforce. Com/bloodlight.

[00:31:03.650] - Chris
That's great. Cnr magazine, we're friends with all the folks at CNR. Michelle and her team, they do a great job of keeping their ear to the ground and reporting all the important information from our industry. You want to stay up on all the M&A activity and what the latest best practices are for selling your company successfully. She's got that. Great articles about all the four quadrants of our business. Cnr is constantly pushing out great material and leveraging great writers and subject matter experts in our industry. It is the water-cooler of our industry. So if you're not subscribed, go to cnrmagazine. Com. Follow them on LinkedIn. Follow Michelle on LinkedIn. Trust us, if you're trying to stay on top of everything happening in the industry, your best destination is cnrmagazine. Com.

[00:31:48.380] - Brandon
You guys, many of you have already heard about Actionable Insights and the training and the technical expertise that they bring to the industry. But how many of you are already leveraging the Actionable Insights profile for Xactimate? That's the game changer. It's essentially an AI tool that's walking alongside of you as you write your estimate, bringing things to your attention that should be added, that could be considered. All of them items that increase our profitability, increase the effectiveness and the consistency of that scope, and it can do anything from helping a new team member assimilate some estimating best practices, and it also helps the grizzled vets add back that few % that we've just forgot over time. So actionableinsights, getinsights. Org/ floodlight, and take a look at what the Actionable Insights Xactimate profile could be doing for you and your team.

[00:32:45.710] - Chris
I've been talking a fair bit about sauna and cold plunge, and some people get so annoyed by this. Like, oh, God, here we're going again. But I got a sauna at my house, and I recently got a cold plunge, and I'm about five days in from doing it first thing in the morning. My sauna, it's not a fancy one. I don't have an app Timer preset deal. I have to... I just have a delay Timer that I can set, and I always get it wrong. So some mornings I have to wait for it to warm up because I timed it wrong. But I'll do 15 to 20 minutes in the sauna. My 12-year-old son actually started joining me. Simon started joining me. He's joined me four out of the last five days. I thought. I wake him up at 5:10, and he gets up with me. It was just fun.

[00:33:30.720] - Brandon
That may be more worthy.

[00:33:33.020] - Chris
Yeah, of course. Yeah, absolutely. It's awesome. But we'll listen to music. But that cold plunge, what's interesting about cold plungeing, and I'm curious just for your experience, because I know it's something you've gotten into a little bit here in the last several months or last year or whatever. The first time I did it, a friend gave me one of those feeding troughs or one of those agricultural things. He just brought it to my house. He's a cool friend. And he's like, Hey, I've been doing this. I think you should try it. He just bought one me and delivered it to my house. It's like, my God.

[00:34:02.310] - Drew
Great friend.

[00:34:03.060] - Chris
Yeah, great friend. But I stared at it for two weeks. I filled it and I stared at it for another week. Finally, it got to a Saturday and Simon's like, Are you going to do it? I said, Yeah, let's do it today. I literally sat out on my back deck for four hours. Staring at- No joke. I got up, I had my coffee, and I'm like, Before I eat, I'm going to do this. And I literally sat out on my back deck with him, and he's like, So are we going to do it, dad? I'm like, yeah, I think so. I'm going to do this breathing exercise first. I did some Wim Hof, and I'm trying to do some meditation. And I know this sounds really dumb to probably most people, But I was scared in a way. I couldn't get myself to do it. And finally, I did it. It took me four hours. And then it took me a few days before I could get myself to do it again. And then I had this idea, and this was a few months ago, actually. I'm like, I heard Joe Rogan talking about it.

[00:35:05.200] - Chris
I've heard all these other dudes talk about doing it in the morning first thing and how awesome it is. I set my alarm, and I literally, I barely slept the night before because I was so anxious about waking up and walking out into the dark and getting in this cold plunge. I did it. I didn't do it the first day. I lost my sleep and I couldn't get myself to do it. And then it was a few more days, and finally I did it, and then I didn't do it for quite a while. But I just recently thought, okay, I'm going to do this. And the reason I bring this up is what I have found from this over the last few days is it's gotten easier and easier and easier and easier and easier to where I don't even have to... I don't make myself anymore. It's just something that I do. And I've noticed this switch in me. And I've also noticed, too, and I don't know if you've noticed this, but I have had a level of focus and drive coming to work this last week that I haven't felt in a while, actually.

[00:36:05.110] - Chris
I feel like a big portion of it is those morning plungees because I've chosen to do something that used to be extremely uncomfortable and anxiety-producing, and now it's become normalized to where, like what you were talking about, just the workout in the morning, it flipped some switch in me to where nothing else feels that It might be challenging, but I'm not afraid of it or I'm not anxious about. It has really quelled my anxiety in a significant way with no pills. I am really sold To the point of now I'm thinking of investing in a chiller. So it's like a filter and chiller. Anyway, my wife isn't yet sold on that idea, by the way, when she saw how much it costs. But nonetheless. So anyways, what's your experience been with this whole cold plunge thing? And again, I'm not trying to sell anybody on cold plunge. It's more just this idea of doing hard things. And around this area of discipline, I have found a dramatic impact from it.

[00:37:07.320] - Drew
What's your take? Well, first, I want to highlight something you said and Brandon said it, too, which is the biggest benefit might just be that you did something uncomfortable or hard or challenging and having completed it and known what it feels like to be anxious about it and then overcome it and have that positive feeling on the back end of it, that be the greatest benefit of all. My experience with both Sauna and cold plunge, I have a sauna at home, too. I got one of the infrared ones, mostly for the convenience, because it's a push button, turn it on, and then just set it and forget it thing. With cold plunge, I haven't done it as routinely as what you're doing. What I've primarily done is a cold shower. Just because I talk myself out of the cold plunge similar to the way you started your journey, which was, Oh, it's going to be cold. I got to fill up this tub. I'm going to have to change the water frequently. This is going to take forever. To make it easy for myself, I just started in the shower. When I'm done with my shower routine, I just turn it all the way cold and sit there for about two minutes, and that's that.

[00:38:17.640] - Drew
And tap water here and where we live is surprisingly cold.

[00:38:21.140] - Brandon
It is, man. I remember I was introduced to 75 hard a long time ago, and part of it is to add the cold shower. I don't even I don't know if that's a formal part of it, but man, that was the worst part when I did it the first time was the cold shower piece. And it was like, I was psyched if I got to a full minute. Man, the mental gymnastics for that every morning were intense, though.I.

[00:38:42.840] - Chris
Can't see.For sure. I still can't.

[00:38:46.030] - Drew
Yeah, as far as the physiological benefits, probably to no one's surprise, it is highly controversial. There's some people that swear by it and say that it does all these magical things for your body, and then other people say those are just overblown benefits and things like that. My own experience is that it's invigorating and refreshing. I generally sleep better when I've done a cold plunge. It's just something that I have this sense of pride. I did something that not many other people do, and it was hard. I overcame it, and I did it anyway.

[00:39:23.430] - Brandon
I think that's the thing that is hard to, again, going back to the experience versus knowledge. I think that's the real challenge sometimes. It's interesting because a lot of the people listening to our show, they're all entrepreneurs at minimum. A lot of them, at least, are key leaders, have teams of people that report to them or are directed by them. These are driven folks. These are people that come from an industry that is very challenging. There's nothing easy about it, not that business is anyways. But there's a lot of things that people are having to overcome on a day-to-day basis that are very challenging. At the end of the day, in terms of entrepreneurs, they're not the mass of the population. They're often a smaller group within your community number. Anyways, point being is people are already doing hard things. But it's interesting to me how disconnected we can still be around doing hard things as they associate with discipline to physical fitness, personal health, mental health. It's very easy for me, and I'm just going to speak for myself, it's easy for me to tell someone and talk about and be a bit ego-driven by this, Yeah, we work this long.

[00:40:32.040] - Brandon
We do these kinds of hours. We've grown the business this much. We've had to commit to this travel schedule just to get the job done and move the business forward. But then I can struggle personally on how to apply that same grit mentality or that focus on doing hard stuff into some of these other layers of my life, like mental, physical health. For me, I would say right now, my biggest challenge is mental health is being partnered with Chris in a business has helped me toe the line. I used to be great in physical fitness when I was military. Outside of the military, really struggled. Having a business partner that's connected with it has helped me. But the mental health piece, I have not done a good job of being committed and investing in that. Where am I going with this? From your perspective, what do you see? Because you work with lots of people that aren't engineers, that discipline is harder by default. How do connect the dots? What kinds of conversations are you having with folks to help them understand doing this hard stuff is going to have these profound impacts that are going to carry into other elements of your life?

[00:41:42.930] - Brandon
Are you addressing that with people, the folks that you're working with? What does that look like?

[00:41:48.680] - Drew
For sure. I guess the conversation is a little different depending on each person. But one of the things that we try to connect for everybody is the deeper why they're coming to the gym or why they want to get in shape or why they want to lose weight, build strength, add muscle, things like that. Because if you just tell yourself, I need to go to the gym because that's what I'm supposed to do, that's not a very compelling reason. And so when times get hard or When you have a packed day, your schedule is full, stressful, things at work, something is going to give and it's going to be the weakest reason that's going to fall by the wayside. But if you connected to a big why, so for example, Why does somebody want to eat well and lose weight? The reason might be something like, well, if I lose weight, I'll have more confidence. If I lose weight, I'll be able to keep up with my kids when they want to play in the backyard or do things like that, or a number of reasons like that. They could run the gamut. But when you then remind somebody like, You're coming to the gym because you want to play with your kids and have an active lifestyle and set a good example for them.

[00:43:01.900] - Drew
Now that resonates. Now, when they have a stressful day and they're thinking about skipping the gym, they just connect with that deeper why, and all of a sudden it becomes an easy decision.

[00:43:12.550] - Brandon
That's a note to self.

[00:43:14.760] - Chris
Yeah, that's important.

[00:43:16.060] - Brandon
That's actually a big driver for me is that piece.

[00:43:22.100] - Chris
It's longevity. It's like, I think a lot of us, I'm 44. I think a lot of us watched our parents defer a lot of the things that were important to them until retirement. But all the things: fun, spending money, buying the RV, doing the things. And I think many of us watched our parents, grandparents do that only to then be saddled with health conditions, disabilities, or earlier death than they anticipated. And I think many of us are coming to the table and saying, okay, how do I make sure, one, I'm enjoying myself now and I'm living my life to the fullest now because there's no guarantees. But then also, how do I prepare myself to actually thrive and enjoy my entire? That's part of what I'm thinking is, I want to be able to do whatever the heck I want. I want to still be able to go climb Middle Sister with my wife when I'm in my 50s, and maybe I have more free time and financial bandwidth to be able to do those things when I want and that thing. I want to come back to the mental health piece, man, because this has been a significant piece for me.

[00:44:27.300] - Chris
And I've talked about this on the podcast and had many in many conversations with other friends and fathers and stuff like that, that I have struggled for a lot of my family life, like married life and family life with anger. It makes me feel better to say, I think a lot of men do. I think all men do to some degree, and I think that anger comes out differently. And for me, that anger shows up in emotionally disconnecting, just distancing myself when I'm feeling angry or frustrated. Sometimes it comes out me being sarcastic or happy with my kids, irritable. And I have noticed there's a number of things that I've learned to do that have helped me with that, to manage that and start to gain more self-control over those emotions and those reactions to things. But I have noticed a pretty direct correlation to days where I train, where I lift hard. I talked about earlier picking up weights in the backyard and stuff. That's not what I mean. When I actually train and I gut myself out, if I come to the shop for a workout, I'm pretty guaranteed to leave it all on the mat.

[00:45:35.730] - Chris
It's like, I'm going to sweat through my clothes. I'm going to thoroughly wring myself out in that workout. And those days that I do that, I'm less angry. I have less of that tension, frustration, buildup, and stuff. What have you noticed in your own life in terms of mental health? And what do you hear from long term shop members? Is this something that they also talk about Talk to us about the mental health piece.

[00:46:02.940] - Drew
Sure. Well, I think you're right on the money, struggling with anger and things like that. I think in my experience, anger, or what I've heard anyway, is that anger tends to come out when you don't know how else to express your emotions. I'm far from a mental health professional. I have my own therapist, so I will say that, where I have help or a coach on my side for the mental health piece. My personal experience is that When I get my training in, that tends to make a lot of other things just dissolve away as best as they can. It doesn't eliminate your problems or anything like that or your struggles. But this comes back to one of the very first things I said, which was when I get my training in, that makes me the best version of myself for everything else that I do. I can now give everything else to trying to overcome whatever challenge or struggle it is that I'm dealing with. That's been most helpful for me in terms of maybe aggression or something like that. If we're lifting heavy or throwing med balls around or something like that, that is a form of expression, and you just get to take it all out on something that has no feelings or emotions and doesn't matter what happens to it.

[00:47:18.980] - Drew
That's one of my own benefits. As far as other people that come to the shop, common theme that I've heard is that when they get their workout in, the rest of the day just seems to go by a little bit easier. Not to say that it's magical or anything like that. I think it's more methodical than anything.

[00:47:36.460] - Brandon
I think this probably is common place for all of us, but I got a question around when we make a decision to shift things up. Let's say, for instance, Chris and I, as household, we obviously are prioritizing physical fitness differently than a lot of households. But then your sphere, it affects that. It can have an impact on the motivation. I think also guys like Chris and I find ourselves in a place where you begin to look at others and out of a really good reason, you're worried, you grow more concerned. At times, you feel more called to be vocal and communicate your concern to somebody or want to try to raise additional awareness. I mean, it's part of the reason why we bring this stuff up on our show is we do believe it's important, and we've seen the gains or advantages in our own lives from it. But obviously, you have lots of people coming into the shop. How How do you balance two things? One, identifying when it's appropriate to speak up versus we can get caught up on because this is a focus for me right now, now it needs to be a focus subconsciously for everyone in our fucking sphere.

[00:48:45.150] - Brandon
How do we balance that? I mean, you literally teach people this for a living, so I know it comes up in your sphere. Then when it is time to talk about these things, what are maybe two or three things we can keep in mind to make sure that the conversation is realistic, appropriate, and maybe comes from a more safe place? Are you tracking with me?

[00:49:05.800] - Drew
I think so. Let me clarify to make sure I got it. If I'm working with one of our members or a group of our members, when is it okay to maybe comment or ask a question about something I've noticed with what may be going on in their life? Is that where you're going with that one?

[00:49:23.740] - Brandon
Well, it's like, okay, so let's say Chris and I, we're roommates. Start working out all the time. I notice that Chris is not.

[00:49:31.080] - Chris
Drinking beers and eating French fries.

[00:49:32.550] - Brandon
Drinking beers and eating the fries, right? But then it's like on the weekend, I hear him complaining about, I feel so shitty in my jeans. I'm this and that. I'm making comments about how I feel about myself and look. It's like you want to contribute, But I also know from personal experience that that wasn't an invitation to contribute, right? So how do you in your own world, in your family, your friends, your partner, how are you shaping that conversation? Choosing when to engage that and when not to. And then when you do choose to engage that conversation, what are some things maybe that you try to keep in mind to make it as safe and as healthy of a conversation as possible?

[00:50:11.280] - Drew
Yeah, okay. Now, I follow you. That's in drinking beers and eating French fries. I got you. It doesn't sound like Chris, but let's say Chris is doing that. I think if I were his roommate, the first thing I would do is just let him know Hey, Chris, I'm going to go get my workout. I'll see you when I get back. That way I'm not putting any pressure on him or shaming him or anything like that. Hey, another round of French fries for you there, Chris. Because nobody was ever shamed into making meaningful change. That just makes them feel worse about themselves. Then pretty soon, I would even extend an offer. Hey, Chris, I'm heading to the gym, man. You want to come with me? And then regardless of the answer, no shame, no pressure, just extending an offer, just being a good friend. I do think that sooner rather than later, that would have an impact on Chris in this example, where he'd be like, You know what? I do want to come to the gym with you. So let's... Thanks for the invite. I think the extent to which you do that is very dependent on what role that person plays in your life and how important they are to you.

[00:51:19.120] - Drew
For example, if I see a stranger on the street that I don't know, I don't think it's my place to mention anything or bring anything up. That's just inappropriate. If it's a casual acquaintance, I think most people know that I own a gym and I work out, and they'll ask if they have any questions. If it's somebody that I care about, whether they're a friend, a great friend, a family member, or something like that, that's where I tend to take that route that I just explained in the hypothetical with Chris, where it starts as friendship and extending an offer thing, but never saying you should do this or you should do that.

[00:52:03.310] - Brandon
I think that's where I can get challenged a little bit, right? It's because I'm a challenger by nature. And so I want to like, hey, you keep saying X, but you're not doing Y. So what gives? And I've seen not health-related, but just conversations in general, let's say, with my kids. They know a lot of stuff already. So it's not like I told them the silver bullet that once they adapt to it, their life changes. It's just this personal threshold that we each have to cross. I think that I can often feel convicted. Now that I'm aware that you want to change this, and I'm aware of ways that can help you change this because I'm doing them and experiencing it, then I feel this weight or this pressure of, if I don't, I'm failing them. I think sometimes I just struggle how to live in that space. I think one of the things I really appreciate about what you're saying is it's fairly unapologetic. You're not owning that person's experience. You're saying, this works for me. I'm going to be open about it. I'm going to communicate what I'm doing so that they're aware of it.

[00:53:09.060] - Brandon
And then I'm going to extend an invitation, and then it stops there. And I didn't hear you follow that up with. And then I moved to phase two of aggressive accountability. It stopped at, I sent an invitation, and you're comfortable with that. And so I think that's helpful for me. Because if anybody is going to be motivated to get people to take action, it'd be a gym owner. I think I can respect that.

[00:53:29.420] - Drew
Yeah, exactly. I have a direct monetary benefit from those types of interactions. But you mentioned, say, your kids, for example. Granted, my kids are really young. We don't do any structured exercise for them. It's all about play and things like that. But nutrition, for example, when we're cooking dinner, I'll make a protein, a vegetable, or things like that, and I'm eating the same things that they're eating. In that way, it's leading by example. They know when I go to the shop, I do a workout, and they get to play. But to them, it's probably like doing a workout. They think they're doing what dad's doing. And so I think it's the the integrity to lead by example rather than, say, eat your vegetables because I told you to or because they're good for you. It's, hey, we're having broccoli tonight. I'm eating it, too. Here's your serving.

[00:54:20.500] - Brandon
Yeah, I like that. Just mirror it.

[00:54:22.310] - Chris
Yeah, totally. Okay, so this has been fun, man. This has been a great chat. Sure. Something I'd like for us to maybe wrap on is we have a lot A lot of people listening to this podcast, they travel a lot. It's one aspect of our industry that there's a segment of it, a fairly large one that travels a lot for work. They travel to the hurricane zones and natural disasters and things of that sort. And many of our listeners have multiple business operations in different markets and territories. And so they're in hotels a lot. Brandon and I are in hotels a lot. And it's It's difficult for us, for me to maintain the intensity of training or the variety of training when I'm in hotels. And that sometimes feels frustrating. I feel like I can fall behind a little bit in my training. I come back to the shop and I'm lagging behind some of the others. But can you give... Most hotel gyms now have a set of dumbbells, what do they call it? The Strider machine, where you're like a low impact cardio machine, a bike, and a treadmill. So Some now will have a machine with a chin-up rack and a stack of weights for tricep pulldowns and lap pulldowns and things of that sort in a decent hotel gym.

[00:55:40.340] - Chris
With a limited set up, for those people that are traveling next week, we're actually heading into hurricane season. So for people that want to either not sluff off their their routines that they've maybe developed during the fall and winter, and now they're going into their travel season, they don't want to put that 20 pounds back on or they want to continue with their fitness. Can you describe maybe a mental model, like a split or just an everyday full body routine that somebody could do with minimal amounts of equipment that might help them accomplish their goal of staying in shape while they're traveling irregularly over the next few months?

[00:56:20.170] - Drew
Yeah, that's a great question. And it's a good point that you bring up about all of that travel that's involved. I guess in that regard, I'm fortunate that I don't really do any traveling other than the occasional conference once a year, twice a year, something like that. The first thing that I would say regarding a mental model is I would manage expectations. And there's a famous strength coach. His name is Dan John. Brilliant guy. He's also brilliant at keeping things simple. One of the things that he talks about is a check the box workout. So out of 100 workouts that somebody might do, 5 to 10 of them might be Earth-shattering. Oh, my God, I felt so great today. I just totally crushed. 10 to 20 of them, you might feel pretty crappy, where, you know what? Not feeling it today. I'm exhausted. My body hurts, but I got it done. The rest, you just feel pretty good, but you got to do it in order to get to those 5 to 10 where they're Earth-shattering. He calls them a check the box workout. And when you're traveling and you have a hotel gym, maybe you have a set of dumbbells, an elliptical machine, something like that.

[00:57:26.510] - Drew
If you go into it expecting to just light the world on fire with the greatest workout ever, that might be the wrong approach. Instead, it's, you know what? I'm going to make the best of what I've got here. Let's get it done so that I can go out and do my job and do a great job. Having said that, I tend to divide programming into some fundamental movement categories. There's a squat category, a hinge category, a lunge, a push, a pull, and then core. So six things there. And you can do all of those either with just your body a machine or a minimal amount of equipment. So a squat could be as simple as just an air squat, a body weight squat. A bodyweight squat, if you have a dumbbell or a kettlebell, you can hold it in front like a goblet squat. And now all of a sudden, you've got your squat variation. For a hinge, if you had access to kettlebells, you could do some swings. That's always a great one. If not, and you just had, say, a dumbbell rack, you could do RDLs or single leg RDLs.

[00:58:26.790] - Chris
Rdls being?

[00:58:27.390] - Drew
Romanian deadlifts. Yeah, like stiff like a deadlift or Romanian deadlift. Something to work the hamstrings on the backside.

[00:58:34.800] - Chris
Youtube it, folks.

[00:58:35.750] - Drew
Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Youtube is your friend. For the lunge category, it could just be a walking lunge or a reverse lunge with your body weight or with dumbbells if you got them. So that takes care of the lower body. And then as far as sets and reps, I would keep it simple. I would call it three sets. If the only weights you have available to you are lighter, your reps need to be higher. If you have access to some heavier weights, then your reps could come down a little bit. But otherwise, don't overthink it. Pushing and pulling, you've got push-ups. Those are available to you at any time in any place. If you have dumbbells, you could do things like dumbbell bench press or something like that. For pulling, pull-ups and chin-ups are always a favorite of mine because they're just so darn good. But if you had machines, you could do lat pull-downs or you could do a pull-e row or something like that. Then for core, it could be as simple as planks and side planks. So I think the key takeaway there is just don't overthink it. Just check the box that you got it done.

[00:59:37.910] - Drew
Do some things that are fundamentally good, like those movements that we just went through. And that's it. You could even do the same thing every day. The intensity would be such that it's not going to be harmful to your body to repeat it the next day or something like that.

[00:59:53.280] - Brandon
I think that's really good to take it. I think it's the expectation piece because I'm like, Oh, I got to do my bro splits and everything's got to line up with my routine that I was on on Monday when I left for the week. I like to check the box. I'm going to own that. Sometimes you just get her done, and that is absolutely awesome. That was the right move for that day for that event, right?

[01:00:13.640] - Drew
For sure. You guys know what I do at the gym. For example, the last time I traveled was a couple of months ago. I went to Austin, Texas. The gym had a great setup. They had an assault bike. They had barbells with bumper plates. But even though I could have done all the same stuff that I do at the shop, do you know what I did instead? I did freaking curves and triceps and leg extensions because I just wanted to get a freaking pump. And so it was fun to mix it up and just do something different.

[01:00:43.480] - Brandon
Yeah, I'm not going to lie. Chris and I have been...

[01:00:45.800] - Chris
Oh, Brandon likes to do a little pump prior to some stage time.

[01:00:49.500] - Brandon
There's nothing wrong with that, and it really helps you stand up a little straighter when you walk into the room.Don't discount.It.

[01:00:55.240] - Drew
Would only be wrong not to do that.

[01:00:57.740] - Brandon
Yeah, that's right. That's right.

[01:01:01.180] - Chris
I think that's an awesome wrap up, Drew. This has been fun, man. We've covered the gamut, and I think we've also given people some actionable thoughts to think about. What can you do tomorrow to get back on the horse or to develop a new increment fundamental discipline that's going to help you get to where you want to go? I think it's been a fruitful conversation. So thanks for joining us, man.

[01:01:22.230] - Drew
I enjoyed it.

[01:01:23.130] - Chris
And I will potentially see you at 4:30 this afternoon for today's Wad.

[01:01:28.040] - Brandon
That's right. I expect to see you there.

[01:01:29.390] - Drew
Yeah. I'll let you know how many pull-ups I did so that you can try to one-up it.

[01:01:33.830] - Chris
Bro, today is pull-up day. That's right.

[01:01:36.620] - Brandon
Video only, my man. Video only.

[01:01:39.340] - Drew
Video or it didn't happen.

[01:01:41.210] - Chris
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Hang tight.

[01:01:45.920] - Brandon
All right, everybody. Hey, thanks for joining us for another episode of Head, Heart, and Boots.

[01:01:51.340] - Chris
And if you're enjoying the show, if you love this episode, please hit follow, formerly known as subscribe, write us a review, or share this episode with a friend. Share it on LinkedIn, share it via text, whatever. It all helps. Thanks for listening.
