[00:00:07.390] - Chris
Welcome back to the Head Heart and Boots Podcast. I'm Chris.

[00:00:10.830] - Brandon
And I'm Brandon. Join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses we lead.

[00:00:17.870] - Chris
I don't know what you think?

[00:00:19.230] - Brandon
It was kind of serious.

[00:00:21.170] - Chris
Should we laugh?

[00:00:25.770] - Brandon
What's up, buddy?

[00:00:27.230] - Chris
Not a whole lot, man. I'm starting to get the hunger pains.

[00:00:30.630] - Brandon
It is that time of day. All right, dude, I got a topic for us you got to show for us this week.

[00:00:35.840] - Chris
Right on.

[00:00:36.410] - Brandon
You know, I'm a fan of Ed Milet.

[00:00:37.960] - Chris
I'm aware of that

[00:00:38.600] - Brandon
you picked up on that. Renown speaker, big author, dream someday.

[00:00:43.910] - Chris
Fellow life insurance guy.

[00:00:45.480] - Brandon
Yeah, he's a life insurance and investment group. So just a monster of a personality. I really enjoy pretty much the majority of his content platform. Max out podcast is his big platform. He's just finished his second book and that's actually what I want to talk about. I wish this was the surprise that I get to tell you that Ed is on the show. Unfortunately, that is above our belt at this moment in time. But, dude, I think we can go get him. I'd like to get him on the show. He's a neat personality. Anyways, here's what I like about Ed Milet. So again, guys, ed Milet, Instagram YouTube. He's got a podcast. Max out. First book, I think is Max out. The new one is The Power of One More and you're going to like it. So here's why I like Ed Milet. The reason I like this guy is he has taken a really interesting approach to the way that he has developed his influencer, personality, let's call it that. So success wise, the man has built a massive, massive financial advisory organization. I don't believe he founded it. I believe he came in as a member financial group, world Financial.

[00:01:54.870] - Brandon
I don't think he was a founder, no. But he now is, I believe, a managing partner and or a major part of that organization and has built a just massive platform of wealth. I think he's estimated to be worth 400 or 500 million. Clearly knows how to win. This guy is an aggressive performer. He is an ex kind of on his way to be a professional athlete. Some things happened that were not great injuries that ended up changing the direction that he went. But he applies that just like when you think about elite level performers where they're able to do things just abnormal. He's done that business. He continues to be successful. But the reason I like him is that he remains humble in the way he treats people, is really interesting. He's very much guided by his faith and his beliefs and has just really come at this from this top of the line kind of way. Cares very much about the intentionality, what he's saying, why he's saying it, the perspective that people would have. He's not just a shock jock. It's different. It's a bit more profound. Anyways. His most recent book is called The Power of One More the Ultimate Guide to Happiness.

[00:03:05.850] - Brandon
So I've been listening to this book, and Bare Bones simply boil it down to this one concept, and it's the compounding positive effect that adopting the mentality of I'll just do one more has on business, life, all the things. And over the last few weeks, we've been discussing things like these four commitments or the Four Agreements. And in those four agreements, there's some really neat core behaviors or perspectives or promises to make to yourself. And it was funny because in the back of my mind, the whole time we were doing those shows, those episodes, I was thinking in my mind because I've been reading this book of ed of just one more and how applicable it was. So here's some interesting examples of where this kind of comes into play and we can ping pong it back and forth a little bit. I think you and I can clearly think about this from the gym. You kind of dragged me kicking and screaming into the physical fitness world. And so I've been working on that for a while now. And just how like I remember you telling stories of I'm just going to finish. My commitment is I'm going to finish.

[00:04:11.540] - Brandon
And the interesting thing is, I think this is that principle and application. It's just the one more. I could do 14, but I could probably do 15, right? I could do one more. And this applies to it might be one more cold call. I could make one more stop. I could actually make one more attempt to get that deductible collected today. I could go ahead and make one more phone call to follow up on my AR agents. I could book one more one on one with one of my Downline employees this week. It's this idea of having in the back of your mind this commitment that anything that I'm doing, I'm always going to attempt. And it's not even an attempt. I'm always going to do one more. I'm going to commit one more five minute block to this thing. I'm going to protect one more day to do XYZ. And basically what he's saying is that when we start approaching our lives, our business, our projects, our relationships from this mentality of whatever the thing is, I'll go one step further. That's really what we're talking about. So this is going to apply like I was thinking about when we create systems and processes for our teams, or we're communicating hard concepts or changes and initiatives are focusing just this idea, I want to take one more minute to flush this out with my key leader.

[00:05:34.890] - Brandon
It's not just this numerical value of doing one more count. I'm going to commit to take that one step further than what the baseline is and just allowing that to literally permeate anything and everything you do, unless it's like drinking beer. It's probably okay to not I'm just going to have one more. Right? We probably don't need to apply the same muscle there.

[00:05:58.700] - Chris
But I'm just going to have one.

[00:05:59.940] - Brandon
More quarter of the pizza because I'm only going to eat one more half.

[00:06:04.260] - Chris
No, that's only I'm the kind of person who always does one more.

[00:06:08.790] - Brandon
You can see how this could spin out from under you if you're not careful, but I don't know, man. That has just been hitting me because in full transparency, I feel like half the time we do these shows, I'm on confession. I've been struggling with this. I kind of fell off the discipline worse. And I've realized when I do it's normally, not in just one area of my life, I haven't been as much of a zealot in the gym as I should be.

[00:06:33.830] - Chris
Okay.

[00:06:34.380] - Brandon
It's like I'm struggling to get three or four days in right now. I mean, mental battle our business. So much of what we do, come on. It's not even our business. This is everyday life. I have not been doing the one more. It's been more like, what do I have to do? Right? Versus here's the line, and I'm going to step over at one time. And so this morning, I was listening to my book, and I'm getting ready to jump in the shower.

[00:07:01.070] - Chris
Pre workout or post?

[00:07:02.500] - Brandon
I didn't work out.

[00:07:03.590] - Chris
Okay.

[00:07:03.900] - Brandon
Yeah, this is exactly where my concern.

[00:07:05.520] - Chris
You got out of the shower.

[00:07:07.710] - Brandon
Thanks for the shame and guilt. So I was getting ready to go in the shower, and so I'm like, okay, baby steps to get back on the horse. I didn't go into my garage and do my workout. I did nothing basically valuable. And so I pushed my time, and now I got to get to the office and start our day. And so I just did a big fat set of push ups before I got in the shower. Just something, right?

[00:07:27.600] - Chris
Yeah, I do.

[00:07:28.280] - Brandon
And normally when I do, I try to book in a couple of sets of push ups during the day. I try to do 30. I just want to get through 30, like, every time. And so I did 40. Oh, right. Yeah. So in context of doing a full blown workout, not very impressive, but from the one more mentality, that's what I was thinking in my mind, like, okay, Brandon, let's not get caught up on the full blown workout. That's not where you are right now, and we're not there. But you are about to do push ups. How many are you going to do? It's like, I'm going to do ten more because then I will feel less guilty about not working out.

[00:07:57.500] - Chris
Right.

[00:07:58.020] - Brandon
The power in this, though, man, it's like the saying a death by a million paper cuts. That's essentially what this guy is saying. And the interesting thing, of course, about Ed is that he's kind of built an entire empire on compounding interest, right? The whole concept behind it. And so when this guy says things like certain things compound, like, he really knows firsthand the profound impact of consistency in these small disciplines done over and over. And Edmila is also the kind of guy that he is the author and the speaker that's really brought my attention to this idea of building trust by following through for yourself and with yourself. And that deep confidence that comes from that. That's it. That's a really major part of his messaging. This is an element of that. It's like every time we show ourselves, ten is the number and we do eleven or five minutes is the number, and we do six minutes. Right? We make one more phone call. Every time we're doing that, we're building this almost like a giant statue. A testament to the fact that when we tell ourselves something, not only are we good enough to do it, we'll probably do one more.

[00:09:10.420] - Brandon
There's just this confidence. There's something special about the foundation that you build if you can remain committed to this concept. It's so interesting because we're talking about these four agreements and things like not making assumptions and not taking things personally. And I'm thinking of my mind, half the reason I take shit personally is because it's my own critic is back there feeding me a line of BS. And so this power of one more, it's like you build almost like this bulletproof internal trust where it's like it doesn't matter what happens on the outside because you already know. Because every day, little moments by little moments, you're always doing one more than what was required. Right? So it's like, doesn't matter what happens from the outside because yourself, your internal mechanisms are like I don't really because.

[00:10:00.320] - Chris
I think we're the only ones that can judge what we put out. But when we do, we know the truth. You know the truth. The truth is, I am the kind of person this is the truth you start building. Right. I'm the kind of person who does one more. It's kind of like Atomic Abbott's. James Clear.

[00:10:18.950] - Brandon
Yeah, absolutely.

[00:10:19.740] - Chris
It's the same sort of vein. We act ourselves into a new habit, a new behavior, a new identity. Yeah, we put on a new identity with our choices and behaviors. I got to say, I know we're coming back to fitness, but it could be of anything else. It could be reading more books. Right. It could be one more chapter. The 75 hard thing with Andy.

[00:10:41.190] - Brandon
Yeah.

[00:10:41.470] - Chris
Andy preselo.

[00:10:42.210] - Brandon
Right.

[00:10:42.620] - Chris
He talks about, I think, read ten pages a day. I'm going to read 20, though, right? Or I'm going to be 15. That behavior alone feels really good. Like when you cranked out 40 instead of 30, you probably got up and you're probably like, oh, yeah, that's right. I got it in me. And it probably pushed you towards, maybe I can cram a workout in this evening and catch back up. It did the opposite of what people would assume it does. Well, I already did my 40 push ups for the day. Like, I checked the box. I did something that's better than nothing, but instead you probably felt like when you got up with 40, shit, I'll make time tonight to get my reps in.

[00:11:15.970] - Brandon
You're right. It's almost the flywheel thing.

[00:11:18.660] - Chris
Yeah.

[00:11:19.200] - Brandon
It really serves the purpose of keeping that thing cranking forward, fueling your fire. I think in a lot of ways it's interesting. I'm thinking to myself, like, all these little applications of how this applies. So this is an interesting I want.

[00:11:34.180] - Chris
To see what you think of this.

[00:11:35.410] - Brandon
So by nature, I'm a little bit check the box. And I don't mean by level of effort. I mean I need to have a box to check.

[00:11:43.040] - Chris
You're a list guy.

[00:11:44.020] - Brandon
I do. I like to have a list. It gives me a sense of direction. I like to accomplish.

[00:11:47.970] - Chris
So interesting. I'm not a lister, thank goodness. One of us is.

[00:11:51.080] - Brandon
I like to accomplish. I like to know that something has an end. It's been done. And so for me, the concept of doing one more countwise is pretty easy. Sure. I think where I was really hanging on this, though, is it's less of a number and it's more of an extended commitment. And so for an example for that would just be spending a little more time unpacking a concept or a thought with my team member or with an employee. It's like if we think about our company culture, there are minimums that all of us feel pretty good about hitting. Because we're an American company, right? American companies, people have at least this baseline of freedoms. We have this picture of success. Yeah, you've got something these minimum marks. But then if we had this mentality, it would change the way, for instance, I go into a sales meeting. I think I'm saying if you did this long enough, I think this is how it would reshape some things. Let's say I go into a sales meeting and I've got 60 minutes. I've got three or four sales team members. I'm ripping through an accountability thing.

[00:12:55.820] - Brandon
We're talking about weekly activity. We're reporting on some movement in our pipeline, some shifting in relationships, and as soon as that's all done, great. Everybody's kind of itching. We all part ways and boom, high five. The one more mentality, in my mind begins to bleed over into things like, I'm just going to hang here for five more minutes and spend a little bit more time with so and so. Hey, Billy. Great reporting. Everything seems like it's on point. How are you doing, though? How's life been, man? How are your kids? Shoot, you got a teenager now. How's that been going? And it's like it would be easy for that to fall out of that category because what does that mean? It's five minutes, not six minutes. But no, the idea here is building this behavior, this default thing, that every time I approach the end, the quitting point, the finish line, there's something in my mind that goes, one more, one more step, a little faster pace, hang just a little longer. In that moment, ask one more question to get just a little more detail. You see what I'm saying? Just this shift into every time I've identified what the standard is to know by default, I'm never happy until I go just over the standard.

[00:14:09.650] - Brandon
At least just one more. I just wish I could live in that space more. You know what I mean? Like, I wish at times it didn't require so much mental game for me to hang in that pocket. And I think it's just because that muscle group has not developed on me enough yet.

[00:14:27.120] - Chris
Well, I wonder if part of putting on that philosophy or living that out really requires us to consider the why. You start to think about kind of a weird example, but my son Simon is my youngest boy. He loves affection. He's our most affectionate kid. He's a hugger. He wants to snuggle on the couch. He likes to snuggle and watch a movie like when he was little. He'd love to be carried and slung on our shoulder. He's very physical. And he'll ask sometimes when we're watching a movie or reading books or something at night, can you rub my feet, dad? Like, that's his thing. He likes his feet rubbed. And me, if I'm honest, I'm generally in a mode of minimum effective dose. Minimum rub, rub, rub, rub on both sides. All right. Cool, dude. How was that? Was that good?

[00:15:15.490] - Brandon
Check the box.

[00:15:16.180] - Chris
I checked the box last night. I was rubbing feet. I was like, hey, can you rub my feet, dad? And I kind of got to my end and I was thinking I was looking at him, and he was reading a book while I was rubbing his feet, and he was just in this pure pleasure. He's reading a comic book he loves, and Dad's rubbing his feet. And I just for whatever reason, that moment, I was present enough. And I'm like, this moment right here is why I do everything I thought. Number one, I've been talking about just how I've gotten in my 40s. I'm just more present to the fact that I don't have much more time to have. Yes. I don't know.

[00:15:47.410] - Brandon
You're not going to live forever.

[00:15:48.600] - Chris
And I looked at him across from me, and somehow I was able to see that in the moment. And I'm like, no, I can do another five minutes. I'll do another ten minutes. I probably should just stay here as long as he wants to. This is life right here. You know what I mean?

[00:16:02.460] - Brandon
Oh, yeah.

[00:16:03.080] - Chris
But how often do I just stop at what's asked or what's required? And then I miss those moments. I'm not pumping myself up, but there was just a very real organic, like, I made the right choices dad. It made me feel like a good dad.

[00:16:16.550] - Brandon
Right? When it's all over, it's probably all the little things that we've been too busy to commit to or that we quickly disconnect from and check the box and hit the minimum and move on to that will be all the things that matter the most to us. Oh, man, isn't that weird to think about?

[00:16:33.170] - Chris
It really is.

[00:16:33.900] - Brandon
I mean, there's just a reality, I think, about that we've got some really interesting things happening in our family right now. That for protecting the team there won't talk much about, but it's just normal. It's nothing sinister to life. We are humans and we are super fragile and disease and pain and all the things right. Anyway, it's interesting how this one more mentality can play into the how do I support my wife right now as she's just kind of eyeballs deep in just some realities with her family right now. And this is that place where that one more mentality can carry into it's. Like we're sitting on the deck and having a conversation. Can I ask one more question? Can I pause just for a few more minutes before I jump into whatever? I don't know. It's so universal in nature of the application. And I think we've been talking so much about this quitting thing recently, or too much or a lot is a reality, but we've talked about it quite a bit. And the interesting thing in that place is just this balancing act. Like really it's about if we take it from its raw form.

[00:17:37.010] - Brandon
It's this idea of people not wanting to give too much. They want some balance. They want to be valued.

[00:17:42.000] - Chris
They don't want to be taking advantage of.

[00:17:43.300] - Brandon
They don't want to be grounded to the dirt and thrown out. I get all that. One of the things that I've seen a lot lately from an employee's perspective and I was guilty of this at times where we want to be recognized for, paid for, titled for what we're capable of, but sometimes maybe more times than we want to admit we withhold actually doing what we're capable of until we're recognized and paid for what we're capable of. And I think part of the challenge, challenging relationships are normally built on this idea. There's just a bit of a chasm between perspectives, mine versus yours, them versus me. And I think as employers, it's really easy for us to sometimes look at one of our employees who wants a raise or wants this or watch that and be like, okay, I agree. Can we go back to the job description? Can we look at the core things that you're supposed to be doing? Can we talk about whether or not you are actually doing those anyways spin out? But if we go back to that employees perspective, like the individual's perspective. And we just ask ourselves a question, am I always living out this mentality of one more?

[00:18:52.250] - Brandon
Because if I was, what's the worst thing that would happen? Is there a chance I get overworked and undervalued at my company?

[00:19:02.150] - Chris
Yeah, possibly.

[00:19:03.670] - Brandon
Probably that could happen. I think the challenge with that, more times than not is our perception and not a reality. But that being said, yeah, that could possibly happen. But even if that did happen and that was not going to be your permanent home, if you identify that's an issue, it's measurable. There's data to support it, and you make a decision to move on, what did you really lose by proving to yourself that entire time that you really were as valuable as you thought?

[00:19:31.030] - Chris
That I'm the kind of person who goes above and beyond what's asked to me.

[00:19:33.650] - Brandon
I always go above and beyond, period, because I'm a one more type of person, not for anybody else other than for me. And inevitably, you're going to be recognized and awarded with opportunities and or you're going to have enough confidence that if you identify that's not your permanent home, when you find the permanent home, you know, you'll receive the benefits of the mentality that you've built. I think that's the thing for me, that kind of challenging about that whole subject is, okay, but who's losing when you start withholding, like, is it only the company really? I don't think so.

[00:20:07.550] - Chris
That's a really good idea, man. It's true.

[00:20:10.130] - Brandon
And I think for leaders, too, there's a difference between us that are in these positions where it's good intentions and we just legitimately don't feel like there's a place to pull more bandwidth from. We see that all the time. Part of the reason that we consult a little bit differently than some is because we ultimately see it's like there's so many business owners with the best intentions, there's no more air in the room for them to pull on. They want to provide more to their team member, their employee, more training, more equipment, all the things, and they just legitimately. From their perspective, it appears as if there's no more to draw from. That does happen. And a lot of times, though, the way that we're treating our people or building the relationships with our personnel, we're hitting a minimum viable product. Somebody, something told us that this is enough, and we hit that and then we get frustrated when our employees don't agree with us. That's enough. And I just wonder if all of us were kind of operating from this place of one more, a little more time, a little more conversation, one more stop in the hallway, one more QC stop talk with one more team member today.

[00:21:20.250] - Brandon
What would end up happening to our businesses? What are we mirroring? What is the culture shift that begins to happen? Hey, friends. Hey listeners.

[00:21:31.290] - Chris
We're doing something a little bit different with our ads. So you've been accustomed to hearing some ads with our favorite partners and companies in the industry. Now we actually have a product page, our partners page, on our website. So floodlightgrp. Compartners want to give you a quick rundown though, of the people that we're partnering with and we believe in as really go to resources in the industry. The first one is restorationerep.com, right? ERPs are an important part of our sales process, our customer development process, and why reinvent the wheel? The rest. Recent ERP platform is awesome. It can be customized to your business, branding and all that kind of stuff. It has all the components to really create a value add for your commercial client. Accelerate job Management Software everybody needs job management software and we just found Accelerate. Not only is their team just really great to work with, when they get ideas from customers, they throw it into the product roadmap and they implement it. They're really advocating for the contractor and trying to create a software solution that works for them. Actionable insights. We recommend actual insights all the time, right? All of us as restoration operators are looking for turnkey resources and training solutions that we can take our team to the next level.

[00:22:43.440] - Chris
And AI, when it comes to estimating and matterport and a lot of the other essential tools we're using, they're an awesome resource and they're always coming out with new great stuff.

[00:22:52.580] - Brandon
Super influential in the industry. Super Tech University soft Skills Development training for your technicians, for your frontline personnel. Let's face it, frontline personnel are the heartbeat of our company. They are the ones that connect with our clients and create the customer experience. There's no better investment than investing in the ability for those individuals to represent themselves, our clients and our brands well. So Super Tech University, surety, they essentially are cutting down this lifecycle between delivering service and then getting paid, stepping in, removing the middleman in terms of mortgage companies, refining that pipeline, making sure that there's at least friction as possible so we can go out and do a great job and then our businesses don't suffer while we're waiting to get paid. The money is coming and it's coming quickly. And then the last one, guys, is Liftify. It's kind of a newer entry to the industry. They're driving Google reviews, so they're a turnkey partner that we can literally go out, provide a great customer experience, hand that name off to our trusted partner, and lift up high and have them go chase that.

[00:23:56.350] - Chris
Google review 25% conversion rate, which is industry wide, people tend to average 5% of people you ask for review actually convert list to five, bumps out to 25. We were such a big believer. We're a customer and they've been generating all of our floodlight reviews and in a matter of a week and a half. Or up to close to 15 reviews in just a short period of time.

[00:24:15.640] - Brandon
And I think people just underestimate what happens organically with your SEO search activity when you're getting these new and active five star reviews from our clients and we just can't let the pedal up on that because of the effect on our businesses long term.

[00:24:29.190] - Chris
Big deal. So check it out. Check out our partners page. Do business with them. You won't regret it. We're confident in that. Floodlightgrp. Compartners.

[00:24:37.910] - Brandon
Thanks, guys.

[00:24:39.930] - Chris
Early in my sales career at Cutco.

[00:24:42.280] - Brandon
Actually, which I've talked about before, one.

[00:24:44.080] - Chris
Of our conference speakers was kind of talking about the subject a little bit. He said it through the context of sales and cold calls and so forth. As a salesperson, it's really important to always end on a yes because you're going to carry that feeling in your next call session, whether you're calling on your phone, you're not making cold calls in the field, you're going to a networking meeting the next day, whatever. But ending on yes is really important psychologically for salespeople. And in fact, now that I'm saying this out loud, I probably don't talk about this enough because it's really critical. It's like we talk about battle rhythms a lot, and as a sales rep, it's really important to cultivate that. You're not going to have it happen every day. But going after that with Ernest, sometimes it's one more, sometimes it's ten more. But the satisfaction and the set up, the psychological set up for you to go into your next day and also to be able to detach from your sales work, that's the other thing is, in sales, oftentimes we'll stop it just whenever we'll cut out at five or 530 or whatever our number is, and then we go on with our day.

[00:25:44.170] - Chris
But we're lamenting the fact that we didn't hit our activity number for the day. We wish we'd gotten more cold calls in or we're short on our meetings so far for the week, and we didn't stop and make more calls in the day to schedule another sales meeting for later in the week, and we're still working. But when you end on a yes, you can stop working knowing that you set yourself up well for the next day, so you're not coming in with guilt and shame. This stuff we don't talk about a lot in sales, but it's psychological stuff that drives our behavior all the time. And so this one more concept to me really hits on that for those either. Sales people are listening, right? It's like there is something about ending on a win. And that psychology is probably true for all of our operating partners as well.

[00:26:27.100] - Brandon
Yeah, right.

[00:26:27.790] - Chris
It's like as a GM, as a department leader, maybe you're an AR collections person. AR end the day on a recovery. Did you recover some funds? Okay, that's a good stopping point. Get a payment commitment and then go home. Don't end on a no. Don't end on a voicemail. Don't end on a. Follow up email end on grabbing money because it's psychologically going to position you in a stronger place next day when you show up to work.

[00:26:55.200] - Brandon
I feel like it's funny because some of this is like that the chicken or the egg takes credit to get credit. They're so symbiotic. I think in nature this is one of those elements. I think that's like that where it's like it probably takes us practicing this one more mentality for us to be able to carry through and do what you're talking about. Right. So there's like all these compounding positive effects on our life when we commit to being that person that's willing and not just willing, but driving to do just one more edmileet. He got an interesting approach to his day. So in his mind, this guy, he kind of reminds me of one of our clients and there's only one that fits into this bill. But he breaks his day 24 hours into he has three days per day.

[00:27:42.570] - Chris
Overwhelmed by it's wild.

[00:27:44.160] - Brandon
So he goes 06:00 A.m to noon, noon to 06:00 P.m.. 06:00 P.m to midnight. So what he likes to say essentially is that in a 365 day year, he's one of the few people that will have almost 1100 days. And I'm not really getting into the details as far as what he does during those times, but there is enjoyment and there's family time commitments and things like that in that mix that he specifically blocks into his schedule. But the point is he's got a sleeping period of time and it's from midnight to 06:00 A.m. And everything outside of that is part of the day. It falls into one of his days and he says what he gets from that is this idea that every minute for him counts. So the problem that we slip into when we realize that every day is a 24 hours period and we only have one of them, it's like an hour can get wasted pretty easily. We don't necessarily feel the pressure from it. Right. Because there's 24 hours. I only have one day. It's like you get six or 8 hours of production or something that resembles production in and after that it is what it is.

[00:28:44.660] - Brandon
I don't necessarily fully adopt this perspective of three days in one. It feels a little bit like I'm just in a constant state of grind, which isn't fulfilling to me. Sure. But there is something to be said about when we have some what's the term? Like a healthy pressure. It's like a due date. There's positives about understanding that something has to happen by this point where this needs to be done in order to generate this kind of revenue. Whatever. Yeah, that's a positive motivator. So anyways, my point is this he's really disciplined to an extreme level. But I think this one more mentality is the muscle. Those are the little he's been working that out for 30 years, right? And it probably was the fact that we can talk to a guy that's four $500 million and has teams of thousands of people that pop 100 podcasts, top 100 podcast. I mean, it's just bonkers. I guarantee you it was 30 years and he would say this 30 plus years of one more mentality, one more set, one more call, one more minute to this thing. I'm going to give this one more hour of contemplation and planning.

[00:29:56.160] - Brandon
I'm going to do one more show, I'm going to do one more talk. It's powerful, man.

[00:30:02.890] - Chris
Yeah. Part of me, when I hear those kinds of things, when you look at these billionaires and just crazy successful industry icons and stuff like that, part of me which you've talked about, really wants to dismiss it or discount it as well, I don't see myself that way. I don't know. Wow, that's like amazing. I get intimidated by it a little bit, but then part of me also feels like, okay, yeah, he very well likely has an extraordinary gifting that he was born with. He's an outlier. He started as maybe an outlier, but I think then when I start to just process that and let it be, it's like, okay, yeah, he's an outlier. He's a 4500 million dollar guy. He's like super disciplined and measured and everything else, but it's a model. What if I could get to 70% of that? What would that do to my life? Where would that take me?

[00:30:50.950] - Brandon
Yeah, exactly.

[00:30:51.840] - Chris
What if I could implement 90% of it? What if I had 90%? That discipline, how would that impact my current life and circumstances and my affect that I have on other people, my influence and finances and everything else enormous? So what if I'll never be him? I wrestle with this. Sometimes you look at Elon Musk and you look at all these figures that we deify, and the reality is there's outliers in the world, and they do tend to rise to the top because they have extraordinary gifts and discipline or whatever, or just energy.

[00:31:21.640] - Brandon
There are people in the world it's just energy.

[00:31:23.600] - Chris
There are people in the world that are not me, that can routinely operate on 5 hours of sleep. It's just not me. I don't think it ever will be. But then when I just take a step back and I'm like, all right, well, so maybe I'm not Elon Musk, but can I adopt his principles? Can I put on his behavior? What would that do for me?

[00:31:41.320] - Brandon
No, I think you're spot on and I think a guy like Ed Milette would be the first to say, like, with anything, it's context. Right? We've talked about scenarios where somebody is experiencing some level of loss or sadness and how it can be very dangerous for us to look at whatever it is that they've experienced and reflect on it as a comparison to what we've experienced. And then from that place the value of how sad or how hard was that experience for them? I think the same applies to these kinds of things, too, where it's like, look, the context of one more for a guy like Ed Milet might look drastically different than one more. For me. That's only because he's been doing it for 30 years. But it all started with one more set in the gym.

[00:32:24.190] - Chris
What kind of person would I be if I did this one more thing for the next 30 years? Yeah, I don't know.

[00:32:30.780] - Brandon
That's exactly it. I don't even know.

[00:32:32.760] - Chris
I think Eckhart totally gets to this. Like, who are you? Well, that's a great question. What are you capable of? Great question.

[00:32:39.590] - Brandon
Do one more for 30 years and find out. Yeah, listen, for our business owners and key leaders out there that are listening, of course the show is always for everyone, but I see, and dude, my heart feels the weight of when we're trying to build something and we're trying to cast a vision that people are excited enough to participate and follow us. It's exhausting. It's exhausting. And you're playing this ping pong game of, I have empathy for them. I'm so pissed off at them. I have empathy for them. I'm wore out by them. I have empathy for them.

[00:33:15.000] - Chris
I'm so irritated.

[00:33:16.770] - Brandon
The back and forth and the back and forth, and it just is nature. It's okay. But man, if we can start falling into this position or leaning into the one more, what does that do? Again, I've said this. We've repeated it. But one more stop in the hallway with a person, one more minute in the morning on your way to your office, just give that employee one more minute. What would you learn?

[00:33:40.800] - Chris
One more second to consider their perspective.

[00:33:44.080] - Brandon
One more pause, one more attempt. Here's something, guys. One more is going to count for tries as well. Like, how many times have we tried in quotes, to do something at our job or our company or implement something and it fails to get implemented, and then we just give up.

[00:34:02.170] - Chris
We discarded. We discarded.

[00:34:05.130] - Brandon
You know what other companies worry about that? I don't really have to. I'm already such and such. We're already this big. What if we just tried one more time to put that process in place? What if we tried one more time to have that hard conversation with our employee about attendance? It seems so universal in nature.

[00:34:21.750] - Chris
Dude, I'm glad you brought this up. I'm glad this was our topic. It's inspiring.

[00:34:25.870] - Brandon
Just kind of eat it, sleep it, breathe it. Thanks for hanging out with us.

[00:34:30.040] - Chris
And if you want to hang out with some more, there's different ways to connect with floodlight. We've got some cool things cooking here's, a few changes to the podcast or the coming weeks and months, but for the time being, great way to connect with us. Go to our website, check out some of the other services we do. We've got the commercial sales master course. If you're trying to really make a concerted effort to figure out commercial sales and build an operation for your team, you're onboarding. A new salesperson is great. Turnkey tool for that to get them up to speed, for sure. Brandon I do live workshops. We have a few holes in the calendar here coming up. End of year and Q one of next year. And then sharing is caring, right? If you enjoyed the podcast, one of the great things you can do is leave a review on Google for Floodlight Consulting Group or for Head Hard and Boots podcast and or text to show to your friends. There's a little share button inside your podcast app. Or spotify share it out to a buddy, another colleague that you think might get some value from it.

[00:35:21.640] - Brandon
It's kind of funny. Along those lines, we have more people listening to our show now that they're not in the trade, they're not in our industry. They have nothing to even do with service companies.

[00:35:31.330] - Chris
Oh, that's right. Yeah, my gym owner, he's one. My gym owner.

[00:35:34.680] - Brandon
Yeah.

[00:35:34.930] - Chris
It turns out Joey Coleman is, like, kind of an icon in the gym industry his 1st 100 days. Like, gym owners take it really seriously, which makes sense. It makes perfect sense. And it's a great little petri dish of service, like a gym a gym business, it's all about how you make people feel, all that kind of stuff. So he was all into it, and then he started listening to the rest of our catalog. He's like, oh, man, there's a lot of this good stuff.

[00:35:56.960] - Brandon
So, anyway, the only reason I say that is don't make assumptions and share it out. So, anyways okay, gang, thanks a lot. See you later.

[00:36:03.860] - Chris
I'll be designed.

[00:36:07.270] - Brandon
All right, everybody. He thanks for joining us for another episode of Head, Heart and Booth.

[00:36:11.770] - Chris
And if you're enjoying the show but you love this episode, please hit follow. Formerly known to subscribe, write us a review or share this episode with a friend. Share it on LinkedIn, share it via text, whatever. It all helps. Thanks for listening.
