0:00
Hey man.
How you doing sport?
I see what you did.
How's it going?
Let's see what you did.
You know what it's going?
Well, actually, you know why, it's going?
Well, it all hinges on.
This one thing we have a Live guest today.
Oh my God, I feel like, dude, I feel like it's been a long time.
0:16
It has just like, it was like, pre holidays.
Almost did our travel.
On our work load is gone nutso.
And of course, everybody can relate to that, our team's been grown.
We've been recruiting.
We've got onboarding clients and doing workshops and just loving every Hurry.
Well loving most of it.
0:31
So yeah, so don't love airports or the airplane.
Love Denver International doubt.
We've been there a million times.
They do some good restaurants but you know kind of doing whatever.
Hey, who's our gasps we gotta.
Oh no, you know what?
Let's hang with sponsors first and then let's intro our guests reveal.
Yeah let's do the guest yeah.
0:48
So let's start with lift if I you know live to fight as one of those we have several preferred Partners.
Yeah.
Quite a good or floodlight grp.com and you can see our from your partners and we got some cool things.
You should know better for partners is that we're friends with them.
1:03
We like their products.
We either use it or we have clients that have used it to great effect.
And so we've been able to vet these people and some cases we've been able to negotiate little discounts and things will go to pull out gr p.com and go to our partners page, but one of those Partners is lift defy, and it's just really fun.
1:20
It's fun.
When you find other vendors that you can confidently refer to.
As you know, they're going to get a good experience 100% of the time and not all that us can say that even about Our own businesses, you know it's like hundred percent batting average batting a thousand but that is lift.
If I it's been our experience with Zach and his team like they got something figured out there on how to get Google reviews.
1:41
Google reviews are one of those deals.
We all say we ask for them, we all say it's built into our mitigation process outline.
Our people.
We asked every time but you know it doesn't and we have no way of knowing right because right, you know how it goes.
So instead partner with lift, if I use their system it's TurnKey, it's automated.
2:00
And they're getting 20 to 25 percent conversion rate which industry average.
It's really fun to listen to exact nerd out.
You know, check out our podcast with Zach, and he goes deep into it, but he knows the data.
And the data is that the rest of the whole, Google review industry is converting about 5%.
2:17
Yeah, of your customers.
So, think about the impact of that, if you have 1,000 jobs over the course of a year, you know you're a real strong company.
Got 1,000 jobs, do you want 50 reviews?
Spin off of that or do you want 250 reviews?
Views.
And what is the impact to your organic leads that you're getting off your SEO?
2:35
Well, if you listen to Zach, you listen to other people.
Its massive, that's it.
In fact it may be.
The biggest free thing you can do for your business is just getting Google reviews and you know, Zach's not free.
Lift 5 is not free but it's damn near close compared to what it does for you rightly.
2:51
Yeah the cost is so low.
Okay, go to lift if I.com forward slash floodlight and we got a little bit of a deal there and listen you're not going to regret it like We know we've never had somebody come back and I'll gosh, that was a big waste of time.
No, no, not even close.
Now.
And then, of course, you guys know, we often talk about our partner with CNR and specifically, our relationship with Michelle.
3:11
She runs an awesome shop, she's got an amazing media platform.
You guys know there's a ton of resources and value.
She's always at the front edge of what's going on.
I really feel like at the end of the day it's like what I say vs.
What she's doing and accomplishing and her team is accomplishing is pretty pale in comparison.
3:29
They're just kicking ass.
They're doing some great stuff.
We just ran into her at the core Summit.
We met for the first time especially because we feel like, yeah, it's so weird.
It's like you hugged, we're like, well, you're a real person.
We're real, you know, you cared more than two Dimensions but just top of her game.
3:45
And you know what, I really like and I've said this before, I really do feel like Michelle and many ways is a friend of the industry, she's a friend to us is contractors.
She has our best interest in mind and like, just an example of just how human she is and why I like her.
Showed up at the summit and who in tow is her son, right?
4:03
And I mean, gosh, he did a great job.
He was totally independent just did his thing but I just I think that's neat.
I think it's cool that Michelle is not afraid to be herself and be a human and be a mom all while being a professional delivering just a ton of awesome opportunity and content for us as restore.
4:20
So anyways and then Shameless video plug.
I don't know if you can see this but I'm holding up my CNR mug.
This thing is oscillator Lee Yeti.
It's the raddest.
It's whaaa gift I've ever received.
So, thanks you in our, okay, dude?
Who are we hanging with today?
Yeah, so at core conference, we met Marcy Richardson.
4:38
Marcy is a head of HR and safety for Guarantee restoration services or GRS, is she refers to about 150 person company that's based out of the gulf in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, she's been there five years, prior to that.
4:53
I mean, she's been in safety and HR and insurance or the her whole career So she brings an outside perspective to the industry, but also deep, I mean, working with a large team, like, guarantees been on the rise.
I mean, I don't know about you guys, but we've been hearing more and more about guarantee, but, yeah, so we met her.
5:12
She was super engaging during the conference.
You know, one of those people that's piping up and participating in the dialogue and had some really great breakout chats in our in between sessions, she's super sharp.
Yeah.
So anyways, really fun.
We get in this talk.
We talk about HR and we talk specifically about some of the Focus points and initiatives that they put in place in guarantee that have really moved the needle.
5:34
I mean, they're not having trouble.
I mean she basically said it we're not having trouble finding people.
Yeah, they're also not losing people.
So we're really curious to hear what she had to say and I think you're going to find some golden nuggets that you can potentially Implement your business right away copy what they're doing and potentially have some of the same X 6s.
5:51
So how to process fun?
Yeah let's get into it, stood.
Welcome Back To The Head heart and Boots podcast.
I'm Chris and I'm Brandon.
Join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses we leave this industry, Marcy.
6:15
Welcome to the show.
We are excited to have you join us?
We got to hang out with you at the core op Summit.
What?
Two weeks ago and you've been traveling.
Since them.
But man, Chris and I were both, we were trying to do some operational, leadership stuff.
6:30
And we just had this voice that kept coming up with some really great content and great input throughout that event.
We were just so excited about it.
We're like, hey, we gotta get her on the show and talk to her more about who she is, where she's come from in the perspective that you have been building around our Industries.
6:48
Yeah, yeah.
So tell us a little bit about yourself.
So what role you work here in the industry?
Give this kind of your background.
Yeah, so I'm a jerk.
Of HR and safety.
I guarantee restoration, I've been here for a little over five years, but I've done a jar safety and insurance for 20 years, which is really kind of, kind of a gut punch to say that I've done anything for 20 years, right?
7:09
And that, that invested.
But yeah, you know, I mean, I didn't even know that an industry like this existed until I got here it guarantee.
And now it's like, it's captured my heart, like this is just what I live for.
I love this industry, I love the people, everybody just is invested in what they do.
7:25
Do here.
So yeah, so okay insurance that here, Insurance background producer for claims person operations.
What?
So, I was actually a broker I have my insurance license for PNC and help life an accent.
So I that's interesting.
We share that.
Yeah, that's cool.
7:41
D, my say wizard.
A were you independent broker then?
Or a captive?
It was an independent.
Okay.
Yeah.
In south Louisiana and I did it.
Mostly I started employee benefits and then dabbled in the PNC side of it, but that's where it was.
So, 20 years, Nurse and HR and safety.
7:58
That's a long time.
I mean, in 20 years to a lot has been happening.
Nobody, you've been a professional in a pretty difficult element of any business, but then man, you've been in those kinds of seats through some very interesting transitions kind of give us.
8:15
I mean, I, there's so much stuff we want to ask you.
We're going to find out all the gritty detail, but just kind of give us your perspective on this Ark.
What have you seen happening over 20 years?
Ears in that area.
Yeah, I say 20 years ago, it was Personnel departments and you're just checking boxes of what you're doing and move it along and everybody in h.r. was really just a paper pushers.
8:35
Are you there?
Just doing things that you have to do to stay compliant?
And in this 20-year span you've seen it go from checkboxes to the employee experience, to having it meaningful to have and work.
Become more people operations subtract, right?
And so you have gone through this hole, where is the relevance for the employee and not just Calling them in employee but actually recognizing them.
8:58
As the person versus the person 825 come in, do your job, you clock out, and you're done, right?
So there has been a lot just more focus of they walk in as an employee.
I mean, a walk in as a person and there are the employees, just the one that's behind the desk and doing the job.
9:13
And so it's been really more of exactly where I wanted to start.
And I've bought the everybody has that old story of that, the image of this old woman.
That's this HR person right now.
No, you can't do this.
Yes.
I could do that, you know, you can't do that.
And I've never wanted to be that person, right?
9:29
And so you fight all of those kind of cliches that people have in their head, but being more people Centric and being for the person and not just pushing the paper round.
So it's really interesting.
There's been some big bigger companies, let's put it that way.
Obviously guarantee Falls in that in that corner as well where the teams have very intentionally hired.
9:50
These voices that are bringing kind of this people Centric perspective, Of to the industry because trades, right?
Construction, all those environments that were kind of the last to adopt this idea that people are people.
But some big teams, I mean, Jenny vandehei, you've maybe even heard her been on the show a couple times.
10:08
She's just a real Advocate and a great voice for people.
Power essentially and developing the whole person where do you like since you've come on the team, you've been in the industry said about five years, right?
What was it?
Like when you first got into the industry in, Hard to that human element.
10:26
What were you seeing?
So I mean, you know, it was the same thing and we'll end this Industries different.
And let me say that is that they're going out and shovel in and work in late night hours.
And so, you have to recognize what are they doing that?
I need to meet.
Where can I meet them?
10:42
And that's where I first dived in is that if I know HR my gyno all the things, the check boxes, like I said, but I wanted to be better for the employee and how can I design an HR and employee?
Fairies around what these people are going through every single day of what they're getting the calls.
10:59
I'm not getting the calls.
And so, my first thing was, I jumped in, right?
I learned I went on the follows.
I went around with the ride-alongs and figured out what they did, so I can create processes and may guarantee better.
And that's exactly what my first thing is.
11:14
I've done, the certifications icrc.
And for me, what it's been more.
Transitioning is recognizing before it was always about the customer, right?
What is that?
Customer going through, they did.
Expect those things to any at.
Even though the employee has a choice of where they can have a job, they still going through a lot of things to a lot of emotions.
11:34
The customers are yelling at them.
They're getting the calls at 3:00 a.m. to go do that to or loss or whatever it may be.
So how can we reach that employee who's getting all that crap basically from the customer right and here in it and how can we keep the morale up?
11:50
How can we keep them motivated?
And that's what I've actually seen the swing happen in restoration.
And as recognized and hey, they employ is just as important and they're the ones that's going to get you successful with that customer.
I love that.
Yeah, we do.
We commit a lot of our thought and money towards why some companies guarantee included right?
12:10
Give we give so much thought and energy to refining the customers experience and how they're feeling you know we talked a lot about it at floodlight how hey, the nuts and bolts of what we do it's important it's like but it's minimum expectation.
It's how we make people feel and the Process of delivering services.
12:26
And so, we spend a lot of conversation around how our customer experience is not going to stuff, but we generally don't give as much thought consideration and care to.
What's the emotional health of our people?
How are they impacted by the kind of work we do, how are they impacted by certain customer experiences?
12:43
Or maybe more difficult or more emotional Ryan, we can fires and bio and it's like, we don't often really take into consideration the impact of the work on our people.
So get a little Into that a little bit more like from an emotional and mental health standpoint, what did you learn when you started going out on ride-alongs, getting windshield time walking projects with people, going through, the icrc search.
13:08
So what did you learn about your people?
What do you see in terms of the emotional and psychological, I guess, whatever, like what do you find?
So, you know, the one thing that we don't want is people being complacent or having just a wall like hey this is just another job and doing In that.
13:25
And that was the one thing that I wanted to really always reach out.
And so people are going in there and they were just doing the job.
And that's where we were having difficulties with the customer right.
There was just kind of a wall block.
And so one of the first things that it's an older book that we did, and now that I'm trying to think about it, the Name Escapes me but Steve to Buren, that's the name of the author.
13:48
He had a book and we started really implementing it about the empathy, right?
And it's the employee for the mental health is What is it doing to the families?
That's the other thing is when they're going around and they're getting those calls, how's the families being affected?
So it's just really hey I'm going to reach out to you but we're also going to what these do your family need you know what can you be at ease?
14:10
And at peace with when you're at work because we've taken care of whatever is going at home.
And so that's the other thing that we forget about is whatever they're dealing with at home, is going to roll over an effect that customer to.
So, really address the whole person, what's going on with you.
What's going on?
On at home, how can the things that you're seeing, right?
14:28
So some of those fires, some of those bio Hazard jobs that's going to affect them and their day-to-day because they've never seen that.
And you know, we tell people, if you don't want to, if you don't feel comfortable with those jobs, don't do, we're okay with it.
We're not going to make you do and some of those jobs, but it's always, it's following up with everybody.
14:46
It's check in in.
How are you doing it having those intentional conversations?
Radical Candor is one of my favorite books.
A lot of people have read it, and one of the line, And they are and I have it on my wall.
It says emotional labor is part of your job as Leaders.
You have to check in.
15:02
You have to actually be genuine.
When you say, hey how was your day?
It's not a passing comment.
You actually need to stop, take the 30 seconds to listen to what they're saying, and then you can move on because if you're not, no one's going to feel that genuine connection.
As when you're wanting to talk about employee mental health, you have to be intentional and genuine and really care about the answer.
15:25
Or they're going to give you when you ask, hey, how was your day?
And I think that's the biggest thing about going on all of these ride-alongs and everything is being that listening ear and here in, not only what they are telling you, but what's not what's hidden in all of those things.
15:40
Yeah, so Marcy what I mean, obviously that's insightful and I know that obviously some of that comes with time and grade but we also know people are wired certain ways or kind of lean in certain directions just based on experiences, right?
And things that have affected.
Their life, are there some data points or some time periods, where some things you experienced are affecting and shaping the way that you care about employees and the effort that you're putting in to take care of them and understand them.
16:07
Like, if you guys put any process or sort of strategy into uncovering those things and being able to not necessarily a process, but the strategy is their right.
It is, you know, our number one thing is that we are we have to Value the employee, right?
16:23
That's when you're talking about company, Values.
And all of that stuff, you have to be committed to them and to their well-being.
Some of the things that may have happened, you know, over time you talk about 20 years, I mean, the pandemic, definitely shaped.
Well, everybody shows up and what they feel because you didn't think anything like that.
16:40
Could happen.
And so we're we approach things differently.
When it comes to that some of the jobs that we know we've experienced and show there's, you know, down here in south Louisiana, the Hurricanes that we've experienced in the last couple of years when you drive through, that's Station.
16:55
You know, even though I've grown up down here and I've seen it, it's still does it?
It doesn't set.
Well, it's still a new experience.
You're just thinking about all of those people and what they've experienced and then even our employees, you know, that's the one of the things when we have some of those disasters as we take care of the employees homes first, because we need them to go and out there.
17:16
So, again, it goes back.
If one can I be the employee can be at peace with, so they can go out and be rock stars for us.
So, those little things just Kind of like you were saying branded of just time, you know, it's learning things, but it's really our executive team being dedicated to the well-being and being intentional, and Jay went out to the employee every day.
17:38
What attracted you to that HR?
Safety side of the business.
What even got that Journey started?
Yeah, that's never anything you're thinking.
When you're a child, like I'm gonna grow up and be an HR and safety that's never on anybody's radar, right?
But it for me, it's all about the people.
17:54
It's about Out knowing that their safety is their health and their well-being, as my number.
One thing I tell people that I'm kind of like Mama Bear.
You know, that I'm going to protect you just like I would my child, you know, and I'm going to stand in that Gap and I'm going to do everything, but that's it.
18:11
I just have a huge heart and I just want to kind of motivate people to be better than what they even see in themselves, right?
So safety is about protecting people.
It's about before anything happens, making sure that everything is followed.
So that They can they're safe, they're not going to hurt themselves.
18:27
And then HR for me is more about that people side and pushing people to elevate themselves.
You know, if you've never been seen the door, you don't know how far you can walk in, right?
So, I'm going to sit there and I'm going to push and just continue to drill people up so that for me, that's the HR part of it.
18:44
Okay.
So you prison, I believe, I started laughing.
So you said something that gave us both a visceral reaction and I'm not gonna go into the backstory of it, but I want to hear you on.
The so you said that Mama Bear?
Okay.
Now in my mind I've had some experiences with here.
19:02
I'm gonna ask you, I'm gonna ask you here's and I think this is a universal Balancing Act.
Yeah balancing amongst amongst HR leaders and that is this Mama Bear Instinct that you just described, right?
Doesn't love for people this, this mothering of your team of look, after their best interest, protecting them, all that kind of stuff.
19:23
There's a tension, right?
That sometimes exist between your role on the leadership team, the overall health and wellness of the company, including prophets, including all that stuff that allows us to provide for the employees and create opportunities, right?
19:38
And the tension of advocating for the individual employee or the employees as a collective.
Yeah, it's like, okay, loyalty to the brand and the overall larger team versus advocacy and loyalty to the employee has a bakery like, how do you know Gate that.
19:55
How do you know?
Because if you have that Mama Bear Instinct, how do you temper that or how do you manage that instinct in a way that that ends up lifting, the tide for all boats versus becoming the employee Advocate on the leadership team that kind of gets it.
Odds may be with other, that's huge.
20:12
So, for me, it starts at day one, right?
So, just like, when you're hiring somebody, we have a choice to hire somebody and they have a choice to join us right there.
Picking that.
And I hold that responsibility when somebody chooses.
You know what?
I'm going to Work for Guarantee restoration, and we've gone through that process.
20:28
That's an important responsibility for me, you know, because they've tried.
So I'm going to take all of that their expectations.
What they have seen in us and I hold onto that I own that but you're right.
It is.
How do I balance that?
You know, everybody has policies that they put in place that we have set expectations.
20:46
This is what we expect.
You're an employee here.
This is the culture.
This is what we're trying to create and I am go so far and I guess, you know, Mama Bear and that is, but I go so far as to cultivating that, you know, we're going to continue to lift you up based on the expectations that guarantee has.
21:03
But if that crosses the line, or if we're talking about policies, the executive team for the best interest of the company, we're not going to steamroll employees to make sure that whatever that happens.
We're not going to just say, you know what, who cares about the boy, that's not it.
21:19
But if somebody is not meeting the expectations are the policies or what we have set as a She is an executive team and that needs to come out, you know, it whether it's a performance Improvement plan, having conversations mentoring employees, that is where it is.
But for me, I always say, more talking about disciplinary actions or terminations, I will never do that to an employee.
21:40
They are doing that to themselves.
Hmm, you know, but also I always look at processes before I look at the employee Behavior.
Did we train them?
Right.
Do we give them the right tools?
Have we done everything as a company to support.
That employees, well-being, and health, and performance, and behavior.
21:58
And if we have and we document it, then that's, you know.
Sorry you know, that's where you have made that choice as an employee now and not as the company.
So that's good.
That's the balancing act that I do have.
That was an awesome way honestly to summarize that conflict and I think this is you know it wasn't for some of the stuff we were talking about.
22:21
Obviously at the Summit is just this idea of like what are the The actual measurable black and white things that we've put into place to create Clarity around winning.
So the T that individual can be held accountable because there's Crystal Clarity around what they're being held accountable to and I think you just synthesized all that really well.
22:41
You you first, if I hear you correctly heard you correctly, you first go to training expectations, right?
And then communication and feedback.
If those three things are in place and that team member chooses to fail, which I think is a hard thing for us to say, but that's really what has happened.
22:59
Yeah.
Then we can be equipped to be more decisive when that negative thing has to be done, right?
Because novice love that unless you're a nobody, right?
That was a great way to articulate that.
I'm curious what sort of cadence of communication have you guys put in place a guarantee?
23:15
Because clearly there's there's a special culture.
I think that we sensed from you, just the way you talk about the business like we were in our little side chats in between breaks and stuff like that.
That we listen to the way you're talking is always Brandon are cute and not just the words, but kind of the way that you're talking about the business, there's something special going on there.
23:34
How do you guys maintain that connectedness with employees after their on-boarded where they feel supported?
But there's also the accountability like we taught you probably I think you had heard of our podcast with Clint Pulver early.
So we talked about it.
This this idea of balancing connection and accountability both.
23:53
How do you guys do that again?
T So, I mean, you know, the one that everybody says is having one-on-one, right?
But it's more than just doing normal 101, it's having informal.
One-on-one connections, is the way that I like to say, but, you know, when you're talking about, it's I'm going to always say day.
24:09
One is the most important, but new hires I have 30-day check-ins, 60-day check-ins 90-day checketts whether it's a phone call.
We do a quick tasks or I see him face-to-face.
I'm always making sure that we're having those connections we have as our leadership team.
24:25
Our branch managers, they're always in tune to hey, we're just doing 10 minutes, let me just touch base with you, 10 minutes in the morning, with the entire team is having that door rotated and always open.
And then, we even have a, this as, you know, a softer thing.
But we have an employee council that everybody's elected somebody, and it's kind of like the House of Representative for GRS, right?
24:46
They vote.
And then we have just meetings once a month of where they're bringing ideas, that they're sharing, how can we improve?
And we have, So much feedback and involvement with our Council that it's really refreshing that people want to.
25:02
They care so much about where they are and where they live, basically of getting involved wanting to share those little tidbits.
And so, doors of communication are always open my door stays open.
Most of the time, I feel like I have to pull a number type of mentality, her, you know, little thing because everybody is in here, but we don't stop that.
25:22
We are always welcoming Improvement in Discussion and how can we continue as a company to grow?
We're always looking to elevate and if you're not putting that communication you're not going to grow.
You're not going to elevate everybody.
So this this Council very very interesting idea.
25:39
Yeah I want to know more so give us a total headcount right now GRS 148 okay and then how big's the council how many participants said?
There's 12 okay 12 total and how often do they wrote?
Is this a relatively new initiative or have you had to cycle?
25:55
Had a few years.
Yeah.
So they rotate every year and we get just one of teams call Ryan.
So at the end of the year, we have a big company-wide meeting.
What?
All their branches, all the employees get together here in Baton Rouge and they vote.
They vote, we get more paper ballots and they Circle people within their group and their Branch their department.
26:12
And then we start having those meetings.
Everything we start to talking about little ways to improve the company.
But also big initiatives, we know a lot of people are things are close to their heart, whether It's cancer organizations associations were doing one in a month called Buddy Walk.
26:30
It's for people with Down syndrome and supporting that and we want to support and give back.
So every quarter, we do a walk and the employee council votes on what we're going to support for that month right now.
Actually fundraisings do today is called Shucks cancer.
It's on the Mississippi Gulf Coast and they're raising money to companies raising money employees and then the companies matching that.
26:51
And so the employee council is behind that in a Spearhead.
I was kind of initiatives to so, I mean, we want to always give back.
We want to again, speak into the well-being and what's motivating and pushing people, the people not the employee again, and those are the things we want to always kind of recognize and start.
27:08
So so this is interesting and it just brought up kind of a thought.
For me is so all of us in our businesses, right, to a certain extent, we're in this state of think I always feel like I pronounce this wrong but aspirational selling, right?
Like at the end of the day, all of our businesses Are a work in process.
27:26
We never arrived and there always is this tension or this gap between what we are promoting saying, building know where we're headed versus, what is actually being experienced today right now.
And, you know, one of the things like big companies, like guarantee or any of the teams that are fairly good size, there's a strong chance.
27:47
You grab a couple team members, you may not get the exact same perspective, right?
That you're sharing part of that is because you're at, Thousand feet.
You know what, the team is investing in and engaged in and prioritizing where sometimes the teams don't see that.
So this is a two-part question.
28:03
So first off, I want to just hear from you Marcy.
Like how do you guys balance and remain motivated?
While we're a work in progress, right?
Where aspirationally building a company?
That looks like acts sometimes where it acts are pretty close and a lot of times we're not yeah, right.
28:19
Because we're on this journey and then the second part to that is, is this group does That counsel do you feel like it has a profound impact on even when that Gap exists, creating some clarity in some messaging around it to prevent our teams from spiraling out, right?
28:36
As we continue to Journey towards what we want to be versus where we're at right now.
Is that make sense?
I think so.
Okay.
So it was a lot.
Sorry that was probably should've broke that up a bit but just that disconnect I think it was saying just enough said, another way is, you know, as a leadership team.
28:52
You're so I mean, I think we were pretty intentional and I The guys are very intentional.
You have all these intentions, we're trying to create the company in a certain way and yet at the front lines of the business it's lost on them.
Sometimes they don't see what we're doing to invest in that outcome.
29:09
And I think they think the Ivory Tower is just whatever.
It's just all about making money or were just making their lives harder with all our new rules and processes.
They don't necessarily see the connection at all times between what we're saying about ourselves and what they're actually experiencing the.
Old as Ike is at Council helped close that Gap.
29:28
A little bit or they like we talked about it.
I think in the conference is that counselor, you seen them as a repeater, are they helping get the message from the leadership team out to the front lines to create more clarity or what are you experiencing?
Yeah.
So the council was actually started because everybody's like the leadership team doesn't hear us, right?
29:46
We have all of these ideas and you're not listening us.
So that's where it was born from, right?
And so some of the things they have brought to us about having more Or I think I may have mentioned this last week, I core is that they wanted Spanish classes to be able to speak to our Spanish-speaking employees that we have.
30:05
And I looked for that and I found a self-paced class.
And so we're going to offer that kind of stuff.
So they are bringing some of that Gap and they're helping actually the leadership Gap to them, you know, they're bringing us down closer to where we're hearing more of their stuff.
30:20
So there is a balance and every month so they get together.
Gather every month and those initiatives, that things that they want to bring forth, they come to bring it to our executive team meeting.
We talked about it, they're sitting in there and we're going through, you know what, why they want this.
And you know what, hey, why don't you look at it this way or we can kind of work in this in this Compromise type of a thing.
30:41
So there's always that Balancing Act and it's definitely the same things of hey, we're want to do this and we love this idea and bringing it back in there supporting.
So the council is supporting the executive team and then we're splitting it.
I'm back up to the council and then talking about one of the other initiatives of talking of what they brought to us.
31:01
Is everybody has a kid that's involved in Soccer Boy, Scouts dance or different things and how can we always continue to give back?
And it's another thing to keep us understanding again where they are from.
Is that as a company we give to all of their organizations?
31:17
You know we meet if you were going to give $100 or $500 and it's depending on years of service.
So if a company He's been here for a year and then you have a child that's in soccer and they want to put in there and add in their little handout and their flyer their program that they give.
31:33
We're given it back to him.
And so what it's doing us because as we grow, you know, that you can't be in touch with everybody, right?
And that's the way that they counsel is really kind of bad stand in the gap for the leadership team and everybody, you know, the employees that we don't get to see on a, on a regular basis.
31:49
Yeah, I like that.
It's a really interesting.
Do you feel like there's a team size before?
Thing like that is relevant.
Now I think that you can always, you know, every team, every company has great thinkers great idea makers, great collaborators.
32:05
And they want to be that person.
You know, you have somebody that can just be a technician to say, you know what, I have this great idea for this process to be better, why not?
Listen, why not engaged?
And sometimes they are for whatever reason.
Timid could not even be that.
They feel like they can't go.
32:21
They just don't have that personality to bring that idea to somebody.
Eddie and you use the council or use whatever you want to call it as a method to.
Hey let's have that person be able to bring that idea.
So the Forefront and it's just helps create that pathway of giving more value to the employee into the ideas or thoughts that they may have.
32:40
Yeah, I love that.
It's so there's probably a little less intimidation for somebody to share an idea with a pier, then coming formally in front of a leadership team or whatever.
And absolutely giving that perspective, I could see how that's pretty darn intimidating for the out.
Person.
32:55
There was a specific way you said that they'll go on back to sort of the impact that it's had on the way it's worked in your guys's business.
It's almost the opposite of what I was referring to, I guess is has the Council of e.
My question was, has the council helped close the gap, between what the leadership is, trying to communicate to the downline, and what they actually perceive and receive like has the council become kind of an advocate for the leadership team down through the ranks, so to speak.
33:21
And what I heard you say which is very interesting, is that It instead it's helped pull the leadership team down into the ranks, so the leadership team can better understand what it's like for the employee.
So in a sense, they've given a voice to the front lines, which I think I was asking to has it given a voice to the leadership team in the front.
33:42
And so it's really interesting distinction.
Aright that yeah, the council is helping the front lines, feel comfortable and confident to send that feedback up to leadership, which I think is far more Valuable because then it helps us as a leadership.
Team figure out what are the real opportunities and problems.
33:59
Like, we've been going through this book, The Road Less stupid by Keith Cunningham and he talks about this, how often is leaders?
We go off on solving a problem before we even know if it's the real problem, you know, just because of our perspective, we have a limited view, and a lot of times, it's our Frontline team members, our technician staff, our job coordinators and stuff that are see things way more clearly than we do because we're no longer on the front lines seen on the battlefield so to speak.
34:26
And so anyway I just that that distinction you made feels really important.
No, that's it.
When you're always at a 30,000 foot view you're missing what's at 500 right?
And see you want to kind of always just be there.
I mean to hear what they're going through and all the times we can like you said we can always have these great ideas of what we were wanting to do.
34:44
But do we really know if they're going to be a?
Because just they sound good and you don't really know and so it's always making sure we're having their level and their Viewpoint of stuff and that We're not blinded because we're just always up here.
Yeah, it totally makes sense.
34:59
That totally makes sense.
He refined like, has there been any learning curve?
I guess to, you know, I think when some employees discover they have a voice, you know, some of the things they say and ask for and advocate for don't make sense.
Like they don't make sense for the general, good of the company or for the growth of the company and and there's the risk, right?
35:19
You give people a voice, they say they use it and then I imagine there's a risk of them feeling.
Rejected if it's like yeah that's we're not going to go that direction.
Have you guys dealt with any of that?
Where there's been some hurt feelings or those people felt rejected or they felt like they haven't been heard because their idea wasn't implemented already seeing the smile.
35:39
So there must be.
So yeah, I mean, you're always going to have that one off the thing that when the employee council starts off every year, I'm involved.
And I tell them, you know, the point of this is we come to collectively collaborate together.
What is the best idea?
And let's think through Right?
35:55
And so it's not just necessarily one idea.
One person coming together.
It's the council come making sure.
You know, what, this is an important idea to bring to the team.
This is not so good.
What are our priorities?
So trying to push that together but has there been those cases?
36:11
Yes.
You know, and its really explaining what's good for one may not be good for the whole, but then what can I help you with on that one thing, right?
Is there something a class?
There's there are some something I can offer to you.
You that can suffice this just for you.
36:27
So a lot of times and I can't think of anything right now, but we definitely try to work with that individual.
If it's going to help them, that may not be work better for the group.
So, yeah, that's interesting.
That is a more deliberate way to address that versus.
Yeah, we just kind of try to balance it, right?
36:43
That's an interesting way to put that.
But now, did I hear you correctly?
So that counsel for a certain at least four to a certain extent.
They're actually filtering.
Some of those ideas before.
Formerly brought to the executive team, they're like they're on their own trying to wait that and say is this really a collective opportunity?
37:02
Or is this an individual opportunity?
Absolutely.
No.
So we even have an email address GRS Council.
And that all this council members get and so everybody can just put those suggestions.
They look through those suggestions and just say you know what, this one not right now.
Yeah, I think this would be a good fit for us right now.
37:19
So and they are Discerning and going down whatever suggestions to bring forth to the - team.
And then they also do have a history of what has worked and what?
Previous councils have done in the past versus not.
So we are always trying to continue to move things forward.
37:36
So we're not just getting a whole bunch of stuff Pete a on Friday.
Yeah exactly.
So do I like that?
Yeah how long yeah, Pizza beer is always positive.
Generally, how long is the council been in place?
Is this something you and acted when you came in five years ago or know it was already in for the first year but it needed a little help.
37:54
Because it ended up just being a complete.
Our is really what it ended up being.
So we had to kind of put a little more structure to it and what it is and have them owned up, you know, take their if you're going to be voted in, first of all, when they are voted, I asked, hey, do you really want to participate, right?
38:10
Is this something that you really are interested in doing?
And when they say yes then hey these are what we're going to do, this is the goal and all of them do own up to the value of it within the organization.
So I'm jumping in.
You took too long eyes.
How do you, how do you coach and Mentor?
38:27
These folks are, are you because it seems like to me if if I'm putting the responsibility of filtering, some of these Concepts and these thoughts and suggestions, but I don't know if I want to just let somebody filter that with no input or perspective from the team, right?
What do you guys do there?
38:43
How do you nurture that?
How do you coach and Mentor that team to filter?
Well, so for the first few sessions of the year, I do listen it, you know, and I want to hear how they're talking and what their So I say get, I will course correct during the counselor.
Say, you know what, I think that's a good idea but you're why it's probably not going to go, right?
39:04
So I do listen and so I am involved in those first really for five months and then after I kind of let them do their own thing, okay?
And that's every year that you every year on initiate that first quarter, whatever being heavily engaged and then okay, Hey, friends, who listeners we're doing some little bit different with our ads.
39:23
So you've been a customer here in some ads with our favorite partners, and companies in the industry.
Now, we actually have a product page our partners page on our website.
So, floodlight grp.com forward slash Partners.
Want to give you a quick rundown, though of the people that we're partnering with and we believe in as really go to resources in the industry.
39:40
The first one is restoration, ER p.com, right?
Erps are an important part of our sales process, our customer development process and Why reinvent the wheel?
The restoration Erp platform is awesome.
It can be customized to your business branding, and all that kind of stuff and has all the components to really create a value.
39:59
Add for your commercial client, accelerate job management software.
Everybody needs job management software and we have just found accelerate not only is their team, like just really great to work with.
When they get ideas from customers, they throw it into the product roadmap and they implement it, they're really advocating for the contractor and trying to create a software solution.
40:20
That works for them actionable insights.
We recommend actionable insights of all the time, right?
All of us is restoration.
Operators are looking for TurnKey resources and training solutions that we can take our team to the next level and AI when it comes to estimating and matter poor.
40:37
And a lot of the other essential tools were using, they're an awesome resource and they're always coming out with new great stuff.
Yeah.
Super influential in the industry.
Super Tech University soft skills, development training for your Missions, for your Frontline Personnel.
Let's face it Frontline Personnel.
40:53
Are the heartbeat of our company.
They are the ones that connect with our clients and create the customer experience.
There's no better investment than investing in the ability for those individuals to represent themselves our clients and our brands.
Well, so super Tech University Surety, they essentially are cutting down this life cycle between delivering service and then getting paid stepping in removing the middleman in terms of mortgage companies, In that pipeline, making sure that it there's at least friction as possible, so we can go out, do a great job and then our business is don't suffer while we're waiting to get paid.
41:28
The money is coming, and it's coming quickly.
And then, the last one guy's is lift.
If is kind of a newer entry to the industry, they're driving Google reviews.
So there are TurnKey partner that we can literally go out, provide a great customer experience hand that name off to our trusted partner and lift up high and have them go chase that Google review, 25 percent conversion rate which is Is industry-wide, people tend to average?
41:52
5% of people?
You ask for review, actually, convert lift.
If I bumps at 225, we were such a big believer.
We are a customer and they've been generating all of our floodlight reviews in a matter of a week and a half for up to, I don't know, Costa, 15 reviews and just a short period of time.
So.
And I think people just underestimate what happens organically with your SEO search activity.
42:10
When you're getting these new and active five-star reviews from our clients and we just can't let the pedal up on that because of the effect on our business is long Big deal.
So check it out.
Check out our partners page do business with them.
You won't regret it.
We're confident in that floodlight grp.com forward slash Partners.
42:28
Thanks guys.
Should I raise my hand?
Hold on.
This is give me a second.
Look.
Get my brain fire up.
Know what?
I was just going to say is it sounds like a very effective leadership development tool.
Yeah.
42:44
Have you seen, have you seen the fruit of that like, have people's participation on that Council?
Have some?
I imagine not all, but have some really just kind of like blossomed under that opportunity and have.
They started to take on more of a self driven leadership role within their roles in the company.
43:00
Like, have you seen Seen it as a leadership tool over these last few years.
Absolutely, it's amazing when somebody has an idea in front of them and then they work through that process in a gets approved by the leadership team and then they actually see it implemented.
I mean, it's a big deal for somebody who had that idea.
43:17
And so what it does is you're exactly it lights a fire under somebody to their everyday, their paperwork, who their mentoring, who else is on their team, how they're showing up, because there is they feel it's not an important.
Just a sense of value and then a commitment to the company.
43:35
And then again, when something is implemented and they see, you know what, I worked hard on this to get it done and the team did it and now it's actually part of GRS culture and procedure or whatever.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah.
Pride and ownership and yeah, it's really interesting.
43:51
Okay, so thanks, true succession planning, really true succeeding, apply blind for it's very interesting.
I want to dive a little bit deeper in this culture thing because we talked about this beforehand and you had a Early fun Snappy response, actually at the conference.
I told you one of our clients, one of our Consulting clients was recruiting for a position and we interviewed somebody, we did, we sat in on an interview, with our client for somebody that guarantee and ultimately I think even offered to best their current comp and whatever and they're like ah that interested and you know, we all had hunt each other, right?
44:25
With the best story wins, right?
If it's really just the money, right?
And and I always take notes, When we miss somebody, when they stay at their current company because it tells me something about that business because it's rarely about money.
It's usually about what's my experience, like in my respected.
44:43
All those kind of things and so, can you talk about this Council?
Thing is really cool.
But what other ways do you guys go about affecting culture and helping people feel apart and cared for like, what is it?
That's driving your attention and you're recruiting right now because one thing I haven't heard you say, Is it you guys are struggling with recruiting?
45:02
I'm sure you are to some degree with like everybody else, but it seems like with a team of 150 you doing something, right?
So tell us more.
What are some of the other Focus points that are driving that culture?
So for me, cultured it starts before they're even they apply, right?
45:19
When I am looking for a potential candidate for a potential employee.
I know that everything my leg work before I had to get, right?
So you know, social media is a big thing for us here.
I guarantee there's Our CEO puts a lot of videos out, but it's what are we convey to everybody?
45:36
And then once we have put that job posting out, making sure how it's reading and then I do have a full-time recruiter on staff.
So, we talked about, I don't have, we don't have as a company, any kind of Labor issues because I do have somebody that's always there in on it and just dedicated to doing that.
45:55
And that process alone, as I think very important to making sure somebody stays days.
I can't tell you how many times I've heard.
Hey, you know what, Fallon?
She was phenomenal.
She got me everything she was on point she answered questions and I think again who you have one staff bad men wise, not just, we're talking about customer experience but the employee experience on the admin side of putting out there and making sure that your brand and your company and your culture is being communicated in that process as well.
46:25
And then day one, when they walk through the door.
Well, they're greeted, what they receive is That culture, it's bringing them.
You know what?
Hey, this is their value me there, I'm important.
This is, we are so happy for Joe for you to start here.
46:40
Here is your bag.
Here's your shirts.
We're going to give you all this swag.
Here's your training schedule and I think a lot of restoration company is aware.
They are, is that being missed day?
One, just this past week, with the group that we were with, we heard about somebody, okay?
46:56
Yeah, you're starting here.
Well, you do all your paperwork.
Why don't have anything for you and it's only only 11 a.m. so you can go home and come back tomorrow you know and people get defeated because they're so excited to start with this company.
You both stood up what you do and the day-to-day and all this stuff and then they get let down on day one day one is super important and I've said it a many times and I've said it, it's the employee experience.
47:21
What they experience from before, they start through the end and you're talking about culture, it is the morale.
If the training, it's though.
What am I investing?
They employee besides just job specific stuff, we have, they call it GRS, you, it's an advancement track for every position, three tier level of not only job specific training, but it's about personal growth and implementing that stuff because we know that there is an Roi.
47:50
If I'm going to invest in that person, I'm going to get a better employee and there is a lot of people that take value into investing in them and it's important.
And as we change and as generations and Workforce switch over, it is so important to make sure that you're saying.
48:07
How am I going to take care of you?
The person?
And when we're culture is just, it's an intentional and understanding part culture is a buzzword, right?
And everybody's saying culture and everything and I think it's your way of life.
How are you going to determine how somebody walks in and what they're going to experience here?
48:27
What is the feel that they're going to have in this house?
I always Use the example, I use it in orientation.
I don't know about everybody.
But when I was little and I walked into my grandmother's home, there was a sense of Safety and Security, and I could just curl up next to my grandmother and I was fine.
48:44
I'm not saying, I want anybody to curl up to next to each other here, but I want them to walk in the doors and feel comfortable, and feel good and be at a place.
You know what?
I'm fine here, and they can Thrive.
And I think that is one of the most important things that we spend a lot of time, making sure.
49:01
Sure, that employee experience that they're arriving that they're not just doing the day-to-day that they're thriving and smiling and having a good time, okay?
That's really feeling safe.
You tied into something.
And I am actually having kind of like oh this is going to help me have a conversation with somebody later actually, how to teams create that sense of safety, admit I'm gonna dial it down to some specifics because that's a massive question.
49:25
But, you know, one of the things Marcy that we see is, is that a lot of leaders in our industry and I'm one of those people where the anger, the drive is hard, as I drive the you can whine about that later, but right now, we need to put our game face on like there's these very healthy ways.
49:43
We do hard things and that we move the ball down the field in difficult times.
But we also see that tool get wielded so often.
And, and without much thought that it can create an environment, where people are intimidated.
49:59
And once you're Dated the likelihood of them becoming a self-fulfilling prophecy is just climbs exponentially.
What are you seeing teams do and your team?
Maybe is a perfect example of what what are you guys doing to teach and promote?
50:17
And talk through this idea of we've got to have this, follow me we can do it.
This is hardship but we're going to take it on the chin anyways mentality but create an environment where someone feels safe.
So when their game is off, That day and it's for a real reason.
50:33
They don't get crushed under the weight of that fear or the threat that you're not competing at the level.
I want you to because you're being a human right now.
You feel me?
What you guys do?
Yeah.
So you know I think the industry as a whole is very reactionary right?
50:49
Because everything you don't know what's going to happen.
Tomorrow is going to be in present a new set of problems.
So the work begins when that doesn't happen, you know, you have to be proactive and all of that stuff because some of those Cases?
What you're talking about her happening on the reaction time?
You know, they're always because you're the customer demand is high that were driving.
51:09
Things are happening and moving at a fast rate.
So you have to do that work when were slower?
And you have to be very proactive in creating that space.
And I think the biggest thing of what I, my experience is that people just avoid conversations and they avoid having those difficult conversations because they haven't been trained coached of How to have effective conversations because everybody's worried, oh, how's it going to make somebody feel right?
51:37
Or I don't want to do that and there is help and growth when you have conflict of those kind of things.
And so it's not necessarily conflict where your button Hagin, you're angry and all that it is.
Hey, y-you said, I want to make sure when you're high or something's going on, come to me because we can talk through it and have and there's a lot of coaching and I'm not going to say we're 100% at it, but You have to be it's always a constant reminder of guys.
52:04
You know what we have to be relatable.
I always tell people if someone is going to take the time to come and talk to me, it's a big deal issue for me and I'm going to put down my phone, turn myself away and face and listen to them.
And that is one thing that we tell our leadership team.
52:20
It may not be a big deal to you but it's a big deal to them and say you turn and you give them all of your respect and your time to listen.
And that is that I think the biggest thing again is Not avoiding and listening so it's a two-way, you know, Communications to way, but always they say, you got two ears to listen, one mouth to talk, and do that, and give somebody more of your listening time and be very proactive on the coaching of your management staff.
52:46
Even you know of telling your, your field tax or anybody really?
It's okay to come and you have to make sure that you have the right people in the right seat is a big deal because again, you're going to have people like this shit.
It is just not for me and we'll run it.
53:03
You may be a great here, but you're not going to be a great leader right in here.
So you just make sure that those people are in the right seat.
But it's just intention on.
I don't know if that answers everything.
It's a hard thing to kind of quantify of how a process, but how do we communicate that to our leadership team is is you're listening don't avoid and making sure that you're turning and given respect to everybody who's bringing a problem that they may have like worked up a whole sweat to come into your office to Kim deliver.
53:31
No, I think I heard you really dial in a handful of things that are really important.
I heard listen, right?
And I heard this this idea you're going to have to address those things.
So if there's some kind of hard experience or a failure to perform or challenge, we do have to approach that thing head-on, but we need to be prepared to listen when we approached it.
53:50
And I think what, I see, a lot of us do.
And I am bad at this.
I mean, this is a thing that I've had to work on my entire life is I'm listening, kinda.
But I've already got my I answer, I already have my perspective, I already have my data gathered to dispute their response or their excuse and quotes to me, but I'm not necessarily showing up.
54:10
Okay, I'm here to here and be aware that there's probably some data here.
I don't have a grasp on and it's likely having an effect on the performance or whatever.
Right?
I don't know.
I think I've, that's what I heard you say.
Maybe I just made it up.
No, no, that's exactly it.
Because I, I think about a lot of things with my kids were young were raising.
54:28
My kids is that it was a, some of the things that they would, Membrane to me were just the tiniest little thing, right?
But it was a big deal that that and I mean how the disappointment look if you would just ignore them or do your own thing and they would feel gut it.
And that's what I how I think about the employee.
54:44
You know what?
There's no difference, it's a human.
And I'm going to sit there and I'm going to turn and give them the attention and talk through whatever it may be.
Yeah, and I think you also said to something that's important is and I think all leaders that care about people struggle with is, some people are Just always going to struggle in this type of Industry.
55:03
So part of creating a safe container, I guess for our people to work in and to work inside of is just recognizing that.
It's not going to be the right container for everybody.
Like it's not.
Some people are just always going to feel unsafe because the unpredictable nature of our business or the demanding hours or the you know, just all the things that are part of this and I think that's a hard thing for us to let go of because you want so badly to make it work can get them on the right path.
55:31
Age and to get them thinking the right way about stuff and we forget you know that this is a weird business and it's very hard and very specific ways and not everybody's going to thrive in it.
Yeah.
And part of that, we just have to accept, we aren't going to make it safe for some people, you know, difficult to do.
55:48
Okay.
We want to be very cognizant of your time, but I have one.
I think one last question for you, obviously, you're at the core Summit, your part of teams boards, right?
Where you're learning and surrounding yourself.
If with really top-tier people and Industry movers and shakers, what do you learn in right now?
56:06
What's the one or two things that you're like?
I got to get a grip on this.
This is very important and I'm weak.
Currently, in this particular area, that's a good one.
Don't screw this up Marcy.
I know shit.
First of all, I always get sort of myself as a learner.
56:24
I'm a sponge, like, I will the way that I approach anything new is like, I didn't even know it before.
And I just Is want to hear somebody else's perspective on something, I may think, or believe that I'm pretty good at.
So, you know, last week in core, there's a lot of good nuggets of information and just different perspectives of how I hear for me.
56:43
It is about really, how can I not even?
It's a good one.
Brandon you may have actually stumped being, right?
Okay.
I'm a self on the back right now.
Yeah, that's a good one.
Let's go actually I have one I have a great one so I am and safety, you know, I I do manage safety but I do believe that restoration overall is laxed and safety and what they pay attention to and what they do.
57:09
And you know, I am trying to educate a lot of companies right now in safety and what they need to do.
OSHA, 300 log zor, whatever.
With all the mlas that are going on in restoration, that I do believe.
It's not a matter of if but when that OSHA and different come, those kind of companies are going to come after restoration if they haven't already started knocking on those doors.
57:30
So it's just kind of given people.
I have a lot of information.
I've been sharing with different companies so you know, safety is trying to educate everybody of what they need to do.
And again, I know it's a reactionary business but it's a just prepare yourself ahead of time and implementing those policies and there's things when it's ready, you're done, you're not having to go back because the fines that OSHA will put on a company.
57:55
Oh, yeah, astronautical astronomical.
And so, I just really want to help educate people on safety and what they need to follow in the field and the office wherever.
So you're also a board member with riaa.
Is that correct?
Can you give us like your 30-second why, why are you on that team?
58:15
Why is it valuable membership valuable to our listeners and what you see happening with your membership?
That's got you excited?
Yeah, so the why for me again is about elevating the industry.
You know just like you all that.
I Heart and a passionate.
58:31
I want to see it grow.
And there's a lot of small companies that don't have the resources out there that a guarantee or any other larger company may have.
And so, our a is a good resource for those companies, whether it's education, whether it's advocacy, something that they can lock into and just use as that resource.
58:51
Also it's a networking thing for all of them, you know, how do you can pick up the phone and call another riaa member and say, hey, what advice do you have?
How did you go about?
Out doing this is it for me being on the board.
It's about coming up with those policies or those initiatives that are just going to help support that smaller company and get them again to elevate and to raise because everybody has a heart for here.
59:15
And if we continue just giving whatever resources we can because there's competition, but it's healthy competition within the restoration industry.
And I know you've seen, hey I'm going to help you.
You can help me.
We can be together and be better and that for me is the Y on riaa and The big things that were coming up with is on education, it's continuing to grow.
59:35
It's a push and helping educate, whether it's a WLS, the certifications, designations, that we're offering is to continue to give information and to educate the employee and the company where they are and going right on, that's cool.
I think I may have I may have landed the plane.
59:52
I think so.
I think we're ready.
Let Marcy go back to the stuff that produces profits.
Marcy, this has been really fun.
It's Fun to get to meet you.
And I think I think our listeners are going to really enjoy some of the stuff we cover.
Because I mean HR I mean you could really make an argument that it's one of the most critical operational roles that in front of us right now.
1:00:13
I mean all of us are trying to figure out how to find people how to keep people, how to help people be more productive but also just help.
Ike is companies how to occur environment.
People enjoy coming to work, right?
Our whole industry like the whole Home Services, the blue-collar trades.
Like that's the assignment.
1:00:29
It feels like we have as a nation.
Mystery segment is, how do we create an environment where people want to come to work?
And they're not just itching to retire, they're not just chomping at the bit to get away from work.
Or I like Seth Godin talks about, you know, instead of always what needing a vacation find work, that doesn't require you to escape from it, right?
1:00:49
And of course, at the end of the day, we work to live.
But I think what you're doing and other HR professionals and what we're tasked with is owners is how do we create an environment?
People aren't just eager to escape.
Like like what?
Tiff.
What if people actually enjoy being a part of our team?
You know.
1:01:04
So anyway you're doing great work and it's been fun to chat.
Yeah, appreciate your time, Marcy.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you guys.
All right.
Gang will see you next time.
All right, everybody, he thanks for joining us for another episode of head heart and boots.
And if you're joined the show, beloved this episode, please, hit follow only known as subscribe.
1:01:24
Write us a review or share this episode with your friends, share it on LinkedIn, share it, via text, whatever it all helps.
Thanks for listening.
Thanks for listening.