0:02
Welcome back to another episode of the mrm podcast.
I'm Chris and I'm Brandon.
Join us as we discuss business Life and Legacy.
It's business time.
All right man.
So why why the mrm podcast, why in the hell are we doing this?
0:20
Yeah, great question.
Well, I mean, it started three, four years ago this was a hallway conversation and I can remember specifics but it was something we had just dealt with some kind of wacky situation.
I don't know if his employee deal or is some I don't know God or lost a customer.
0:37
I don't remember.
But I just I remember one of us turning to each other's thinking man we need a podcast.
We have We have so many stories we need to find out there was more to it.
It was like we need to document these experience.
That's what it was.
0:53
Yeah I think wasn't just hey we need to tell people these stories.
God actually came from a sense of there are so many amazing and terrifying, an awesome and horrible experiences and we're going to forget the stuff.
Yeah and it started that way as an internal podcast idea but we need this just to document the history.
1:14
Of our company.
As we're going through all of these motions, the trough of Sorrow.
Yeah, we need a way to document this stuff and literally I think it was a few months later.
You like hell yeah, we are and gonna do this.
Yeah, we got some microphones.
We got an audio interface and then, of course, life took over and we didn't end up doing it then.
1:31
Yeah, and things went dormant.
Thanks, what your it for a little while?
No, I know you're right on.
I think that is the Genesis of this.
This is an idea that certainly did start years ago, wasn't last night by any stretch of the imagination.
Education.
And I think what we were recognizing, and not moment, I mean, this is hard to put into words, but I think what we were recognizing in that moment, is the whole person to humanity portion of problem solving, when you're an entrepreneur, when you're a business leader, like the emotional context, the ins and outs, all the different dimensions in the sides of the conversation, when we're trying to lead people.
2:05
Well, and I think that's where some of that came from.
And I think it's this idea that what we've experienced, you've been working with people.
Is that yeah.
Down in the pavement, on these operational, strategic items, these Concepts, these tools.
But man, there's this whole thing that's happening behind the scenes in this relationship with a client or, with a business partner, whatever.
2:28
There's this whole world that's happening that often doesn't get talked about that honestly is so profound and its impact and it's change.
And so, I think a big part of what our goal for this, right?
Is to hang in that space, to take a look at that to have more conversations.
2:43
And around these ideas, these life-altering, right?
These life-changing experiences that we can have not only in our own businesses and relationships with people that we meet certainly professionals and influencers from other Industries or other categories of focus and really just having an awesome adventure as we get to experience the stuff.
3:04
I almost said, shit, as we experience this stuff firsthand, right?
So and you know, we have kind of categorize this.
We've thrown it into some pillars.
If We love the space that we want to hang out in.
We're going to be bringing content.
We're going to be talking to folks about stuff that's going to impact our business, right?
3:21
It's going to grow our business.
We're going to focus and we definitely want to get into some tactical snow yesterday.
You got his, you got, and I think we've picked up a lot of things along the way.
Oh, yeah.
And I think we've learned as much through failure as we have through successes and wins if not more I mean frankly.
3:37
Yeah.
Right that's where the real transformation has happened.
But yeah, we definitely want to get tactical and strategic but not just from our own Perspective.
I think we have kind of a wish list of guests that we want to bring in that can bring in their own best practices and learning experiences, oh, without a doubt.
3:54
Yeah, the other big category, dun dun dun, right business life man.
This is the bottomless category, right?
There's so much opportunity here but we've gotta unpack stuff.
The stuff, the things, the opportunities, the experiences that are changing our lives or have the stored energy, the potential to change our lives.
4:13
That's got to be a space that we hang out.
I just can't ignore it.
Well dude, isn't that the biggest Force multiplier, right as a business leader.
Is if you can get your life healthy and your role and your behavior, and your business healthy, like when we can get there and I don't think we're there all the time now, right?
4:30
But if we're pursuing that.
Yeah, because there is no separation.
We've talked about this compartmentalization, like I'm one way at work as a boss and I'm another way at home with my family, a cat does not, Work.
Now our kids see through it, our spouses see through it.
4:47
We ultimately know and we just carry that Stress and Anxiety when we're not pursuing Health in our day-to-day life as well as our personal professional growth.
Like it's just it's limited.
What we can do though?
It's undoubtedly dude.
Here's the reality, I think you and I have even had conversations where at times, we could be killing it.
5:07
Like business was Rockin and Rollin, we had momentum, we had things new relationships with a Just stored energy walking in the door and I might have been in a three-month scenario where I was just struggling to communicate effectively with my kids and you don't feel good like you just don't feel good, I don't care.
5:25
You don't the windows the winds at work.
Just do not feel as good.
It's not the same.
Yeah, it's not the same.
You got to have both.
So we got to hang there, we've got to unpack stuff.
That's going to have a positive impact and we kind of talked about putting together a segment periodically called like family hour or something where we just camp out on that.
5:42
Because the reality is most of Of us there listening to this certainly you and I were also father's.
We're also spouses or somebody's uncle or somebody's Aunt, you know, whatever.
And so who knows where we'll go with that.
So I can be every episode, you know?
Maybe once a month we'll just camp out on kind of a family topic.
6:00
There are Specialists out there that we're going to reach out to that.
We're going to have come in and talk to us.
And God knows there's going to be a ton of opportunities to learn.
But, anyways, Legacy.
Yeah, you're right where we going there?
What's that word?
Even mean?
I think it's I feel like you and I are figuring out what You see means, I think what we are figuring out more, what?
6:16
It's not, it's not the money and it's not even the achievement because we've had that you and I've experienced both in this industry and it can give that in Spades, but you get to apply it.
And I don't even know, it's that far down the road where you just realize the money's not what I was looking for.
6:33
Oh sure.
The house.
The boat that kind of stuff.
It's great awesome.
But it doesn't satisfy for very long.
Yeah.
I'm it's like our mom told us this, right?
We learn this in Sunday school, whatever.
Right.
That money's not everything and it, you know, but you figure that out pretty quickly.
6:48
Yeah.
That if it's not about more than that and I think you and I to man the pleasure of help seen other people grow like you.
And I still have people in our wake that are different people because we work with them and we are to, that's keep our and we are two and we are too and that's it.
7:04
That's Legacy, like we grew together.
Yeah, we grew together with our downline.
Yeah.
Which I think we forget about sometimes when it comes to Lacey is that are our people are impacting us as well.
Lon I think you even said this not that long ago, you use the term that you learn when you teach others, but because it just it holds you responsible differently, you know, once you're taking that information that you acquire and you're doing something with it right away.
7:27
It does change the intake of that information.
How you assimilate it?
Here's the other thing, I just want to talk about with Legacy is I want to get rid of some of the kind of Miss maybe misnomer.
I don't know if that's the right word, but this misconception, if you will of legacy is I think Sometimes people hear that term, and they want to turn that into, this is about me like this computation reputation title, right and and obviously if you have a great impact on people's lives, obviously some form of title or vision of you is going to be created, but I think what's really key here, and what we're talking about, where we're going to focus our attention as we develop this podcast.
8:04
Is this idea of Legacy being how are what are you doing to leave?
Others like how are you leaving them?
Yeah.
And we're talking about everything from walking into a room.
To the end of our journey.
Yeah.
When you walk into a space, what is happening?
Not about you.
8:20
But by the way, you carry yourself, the standards that you follow the way that you communicate.
How much of that is thought about in a proactive way to ensure that the impact that you're having is as positive as possible, Right?
Does the rising tide in your business lifts all boats, right?
8:39
Or you leaving people behind right?
Oh man, that's huge.
Is your ship sailing.
And everybody else is just sort of left to figure things out for themselves, right, or you building people up.
You know, I mean, and that's I think that's a question.
We always have to check in on ourselves with because boy, we've had Seasons where we've been more focused on our people and we've had seasons were be less focused.
8:58
We got wrapped up in the numbers, the achievement the everything else and we all know the difference we do everybody is listening to this knows what we're talking about.
It's easy to get things out of balance but that's a focus for us.
It is so much so that in a lot of and this is for me personally I think part of my dream of starting a podcast like this has always been like is there an opportunity on scale to have impact like that to build this Legacy be in this space where we're being transparent enough that were being proactive enough that were challenging ourselves enough that we can really share experiences with people, we can share information, we can share people specialists in such a A way that people's lives really are changing.
9:45
Yeah.
And that we can get to the end of our race.
And I mean, literally like when we can't run any longer and look back and say, are we proud of what we spent our days doing?
And for me, this is part of that, I want to make sure that when we're recording a session that we're thinking about it, from this perspective of will that be part of that Journey that we took.
10:05
And can we look back and say, wow, that was an opportunity to have a really positive impact on.
Someone some team some business somewhere and I That's massive for us.
So let's talk a little bit more about the why behind this?
Because I think there's another piece here that a lot of people even know us, you know, that we've worked with and stuff may not fully know a sort of the backstory, but you and I've developed a special working relationship.
10:31
I mean, we're going on seven or eight years that we've been working together in some capacity in you.
And I've had a couple special not a couple lots of moments where we've been able to be that iron sharpening iron, you know like why?
I think that Bible says, right about men, really honing, each other's character and crafts.
10:50
Like, it's important for us to kind of bump up against each other and great against each other, because it helps us both become sharper and more effective and you, and I've experienced that a lot.
I think that's part of what we're wanting to one.
Just share, like, just openly share about what that's looked like, working together.
11:06
Because I think there's stuff there that people can do themselves within their own working relationships, whether an owner with their general manager, A juror.
Their general manager and other somebody else on their leadership team.
Yeah, there's something there.
That's been really powerful for us and I thought we should share a little bit of that.
Yeah, I'll start with my example.
11:24
I think back this must have been for five years ago.
I was giving a presentation at a all company meeting.
There's probably 30, 40 people in the room and I got to the end of the talk and like all of us, when you given to talk in front of a group here, like it was terrible.
11:41
It must have been lame.
People thought it because We just staring at you blank, right?
All they want to do is just eat their donuts in the coffee, right?
But somehow, every As Leaders, right?
You want people to, like, pay attention, whatever.
So, I got down from that after the meeting, I said, hey, how'd it go, man?
How do you think I did?
11:57
And you were like, dude, you're great at this.
It was fine, it was good, but you said it in such a way that I'm like, oh no, there's more, there's more.
Okay.
Well, what else, man?
And you said well you know, this is just an observation.
I don't know if this dead-on, but I feel like you have a really Strong sense of self-confidence.
12:15
But you're good at speaking in front of people, you know, what to say, you're good at saying it.
But there's this energy that you put off that, I wonder Chris.
If there's like, if you lack self-esteem and that when you said that, it just hung, there is remember no one had ever said that to me before I grew up in a church environment leading music and worship and I did it developed a lot of self-confidence from an early age, singing in front of people, playing the piano.
12:43
All Kind of stuff.
But when you said that I realized there's something there and it actually made me kind of emotional in the moment because I could just tell that it was obvious to me that you did see something and it felt true to me in that moment, but nobody's ever said that to me.
And so really honestly for the last three or four years, I have got to become something.
13:03
I'm just keenly aware of, and I think what you were pointing at was there was a neediness that I was giving off that was affecting my leadership because I Needing people to react a certain way to what I was saying, rather than just sitting in the strength of this is what I feel like needs to be said, this is what I need from the team and just settle being settled in that instead, there was this energy that you saw that I really needed people like me.
13:29
I needed them to like what I was saying and it really was affecting my leadership and I'll just never forget that man, that took a lot of Courage for you to say that, but it's something that I continue to work on today.
I've just keeping that in check and noticing when I'm putting that.
At out, and giving myself a moment to pause my, what's this about, what am I feeling?
13:47
I'm feeling kind of imposter syndrome.
I'm in a room of people that I want to have, like me and what's what's going on there?
Yeah.
Whereas before, I think I was doing out a really subconsciously.
Yeah.
And likewise, man, I have experienced opportunities where even in that, you know, at times, we've had employee employer relationships, right?
14:06
Where I was in roles where you are, senior to me, I can't lie.
I was, you know, senior and still though we had opportunities to Experience that iron sharpens iron same kind of similar setting.
I have an example that stuck with me and in fact we were talking about it.
Again, this morning is, I have eight years of military background after that.
14:26
I spent a number of years in different forms of construction.
One part of that being part of a team that built communication towers.
And we're literally, you're hanging on sections of Steel.
While a crane is dropping them in place, right to be fully transparent there.
I Didn't Do It terribly long, but in my military career, I was jumping out of airplanes, right, was part of the 82nd Airborne Division which was a real honor.
14:48
Anyways, where I'm going with this is that I had spent many years being in a position where whether the role or position required.
It at least that was my perception or building, you know, as we grow up and we go through life situations, we developed these armors right these things, these behaviors that make us feel strong or that.
15:07
We feel has the appropriate level of influence that we want and I had developed and Really consistently stayed in this place of respected fear and it was very effective.
I was often winning in my work environment by being that.
15:23
And I remember that that was obviously something that was brought to many situations and interactions as a leader of a growing restoration business and even in all company meetings, right?
Like there was definitely this Vibe of I did care about people and I think people saw that 100% but more often than not I was in this Place of this is a non-negotiable.
15:45
This is how we're going to do it.
Yeah, kind of a default command and control photo.
Sure.
And by default, I think defaults a great word there and I remember we got done with something and I'd honestly man, I don't even remember.
If I asked you for feedback.
I think you literally were just like, hey, I followed you back here.
16:02
Oh yeah, you like follow me.
Hey.
Can I tell you something?
I'm thinking in my mind who I want to hear this job probably, but I don't know if I want to hear what you're about to tell me and you just very strategically And really professionally just said, hey, you know, I think the team already has a respect for your commanding control.
16:21
Like, I don't think that's an area that you need to spend more time and energy developing.
But have you thought about doing more, you know, spending more time in this place of affirming, the team reminding them that you're proud of them, and that you're in their corner.
And, you know, honestly, in the moment, I think it probably pissed me off, actually, in the moment, right?
16:41
I remember that first.
First interaction, it wasn't like rainbows and butterflies like I've been waiting for this feedback like somebody might help me understand it.
Yeah, you know you were pretty like just neutral.
Yeah.
And this is coming from the subordinate, right?
16:56
It's true is true and I want to clarify because I think the words I used and it may have been part of what hooked you is.
I use word anger.
Yeah, I said I did you're overusing your anger tool.
Yeah.
You're not aware of how others are experiencing that.
17:13
It like before you even open your mouth, when you walk into that room of 40 people, you already have the command of that group.
Dude, you're the guy that signs off in their paychecks.
Yeah.
You already have in some ways, the fear of God, right?
Any extra amount you Heap in there, it's going to freak people out.
17:32
Yeah.
And I think that's what I was observing was there was a real angst in the room that I was feeling of this is too much anger energy.
Yeah but I also and then I said the love energy.
Which you can, the Homemaker what your anger love, but it felt true.
17:48
It's like we were a company that, and you, you led, the charge on this, we want to be a company that changes people's lives and that's both externally as we're helping clients recover from unexpected, you know, damage events to our internal people.
This is what we want to be about.
I think it was me just holding a mirror up and saying, hey, you say, you want this?
18:06
I know you do.
I believe you?
Yeah.
And instead, this is what's coming out more right now, right?
And what if he doubled down on, on the love?
Courage map formation.
While you still, you're the boss.
People know it and people also know your capacity for righteous anger.
They know it's back there when needed.
18:22
Yeah.
Yeah.
And it took balls, like, I mean, the fact that you stepped into that, but here's the reality man and I, this is part of what we were talking about this morning.
It changed my life, right?
And even in the moment, if I did it, you know, because of course, my egos flared up.
You know, I was going certainly using some angry energy.
18:40
Like how dare you?
You know, like there's all these conversations now.
Of course, at this time, you and I already had a respected professional relationship.
So, you know, wasn't completely left field.
But there was this reality that that check in the willingness to say, this looks out of alignment, with what the vision is that, we're casting for the company.
19:00
It was an amazing stopping point for me to be reminded, and it really did change my life.
It affected everything, it affected the way that I thought about the relationship with my wife.
Like, how often Was, I rolling into a conversation with my spouse with that energy?
19:18
Instead of the, hey, you're my partner, I believe in you and I love you.
And that's the basis of where we're starting, right?
This engagement, this challenge, whatever and it really was profound and I will say this and I won't use any examples for the sake of my son but you know, he and I have not always had really easy communication and I do remember that having a profound impact.
19:39
On the way that I thought about the next time I was going to have a conversation with my son.
On what energy was, I bringing to the table and how often had I in the past and still do bringing kind of that commanding control that anger side.
Instead of this, hey, let's hit reset.
Make sure we're all starting from this place of.
19:55
We're on the same team, I'm in your corner.
Now, let's talk about this thing.
That's challenging me.
And that's what we're seeing with.
This is the opportunity with this podcast to have real conversations to take off these presentation layers and really be honest about the Shit, the kicks are faced in and the things that happen they motivate the crap out of us because they're so phenomenal.
20:21
The experience is so amazing.
So, having more conversations with people with specialist with folks, that have spent their professional lives, focusing on ideas and Concepts that honestly can make us better.
That's where we're going.
That's what's motivating the creation of the mrm podcast and that's a lot.
20:42
What people can expect a year?
Between you and I and what we're going to try to draw to guess.
Yeah.
Is this real organic?
The real shit real, the real stuff, right?
Yeah, I think kind of enclosing to another perspective on that or another aspect that is you and I really love looking outside the industry.
20:58
I mean, you've got buddies that own all different kinds of businesses.
We just went camping with one of your attorney buddies, while back in the conversations, we get inevitably benefit us in terms of our perspective, ideas our creativity, in our own industry, Three by pulling from outside.
21:15
Absolute.
Right?
And so, for example, I know, eventually we're going to have a podcast about how we engage with Ritz-Carlton.
Yeah, the famous hotel group in helping us transform.
Our customer experience process in restoration, like who does that right?
Right Hotel business.
Yeah, but there's a lot of value.
21:31
And so, we're really excited to explore some of that and we hope you guys will come along for the ride.
Absolutely.
So let's do this.
Okay?
We are setting a tone.
We've committed to a wrap-up If you will a summer is, is Brandon student and I'm just humoring him.
21:47
This is just how my mind works for those of you that it aligns with awesome for the rest of you hang on.
So here's what we're talking about guys, we're going to hang out in Concepts and ideas that are going to enhance our businesses.
We're going to hang out in places and talk about ideas and Concepts that have a positive impact on our life.
22:05
That challenge Us in such a way that we change as a whole person that as a whole purpose is person, dad the husband whatever.
Person.
It's the rest of the iceberg under the surface, right.
And with this idea that we can all get towards the end of our race and look back and be really proud of the legacies of that we built, because we were willing to challenge one another and challenge ourselves to be different.
22:32
We want to provoke change in each other.
In our audience, we want to encourage you guys.
We want to fuel you.
We want to motivate you to take on these challenges and Stretch yourself, so that you can be a different person at the end of your journey, one that you can be super proud of.
22:51
That's where we're going.
Okay, we hope you join us for the ride.
We'll see you next time.
All right, everybody.
Hey thanks for joining us for another episode of the mrm podcast and if you got something out of it, share it with a friend hit, subscribe.
If follow leaves five, star review.
23:08
Thanks a lot.
Stretch yourself, so that you can be a different person at the end of your journey, one that you can be super proud of.
That's where we're going.
Okay, we hope you join us for the ride.
We'll see you next time.
All right, everybody.
Hey thanks for joining us for another episode of the mrm podcast and if you got something out of it, share it with a friend hit, subscribe.
If follow leaves five, star review.
Thanks a lot.