0:02
Welcome back to another episode of the mrm podcast.
I'm Chris and I'm Brandon.
Join us as we discuss business Life and Legacy.
It's business time.
We talked about how we wanted to do, tactical stuff in this, is the MIT Resto Mastery podcast, right?
0:20
So sorry about things that are like tactical to the restoration industry collections accounts receivable Collections and it just so happens.
We've had a couple of clients that have brought this topic to our attention and in some cases pretty dramatic fashion, where we found out, oh my goodness, you got a lot of cash, sitting out there 90 Us days, you need to get your stuff together, right?
0:49
Another podcast topic, right?
But I just think it's worth us talking about, and we're going to get a little nitty-gritty.
I'm sure.
But also, just talking about how we think about collections, how we approach it in our business.
The system's, the attitudes, the perspective that we put on collections in AR, because I think there's probably some best practices out there that maybe aren't sir.
1:13
Being as well or I should say not best practices default practices and behaviors that aren't necessarily serving us and might be contributing to us getting into these cash flow crises or a are pinches.
1:29
We can find ourself in.
So I don't know exactly where I want to go with that.
But I think there's probably a lot that we can cover and I think we should give some nuts and bolts, you know, tips on stuff.
We found that that can help.
Yeah.
I think.
You're right on.
1:45
There's a bit of a balancing act just because not a one-size-fits-all kind of scenario.
There's certainly a lot of tactics that we can talk about some strategies that we can deploy on a consistent basis that I think will have a really profound effect on your team's ability to collect consistently and in a timely manner, and I think you're right, I agree with you.
2:04
I think a lot of this is mindset and it's more about how often we talking about it and at what times in our business battle rhythms are we bringing it up are probably the most Most beneficial and just again conceptually.
Don't you think?
We look at generally we look at AR the wrong way because I think in my own observations of course I'm coming more from the sales marketing branding leadership side.
2:26
But for years I sat in on our our leadership meetings where AR was a piece of the conversation and I think we even sometimes slipped into this, where we kind of put a are in an administrative box.
And oftentimes we have somebody now a lot of times An office manager that's in charge of a our share.
2:46
Yeah.
I think your and depending on the skill set in the profile that office manager, that can be a great role for them.
But I think we'll off, we tend to think of it as like, almost, I don't know the right way to say this, but like an entry-level secretarial somebody that's just sending out a boilerplate, email hopping on the phone and being nice.
3:05
And we've relegated it to this simplistic raw.
Yeah, we're just checking boxes.
Yeah, I'm going.
Ooh, your call list?
Yeah.
That is just this rudimentary entry-level kind of administrative tasks collections is.
3:21
Yeah, they were just following a punch list, it's just an order taker position, kind of role and we lose track of the fact that it's actually more of a sales role in terms of like the best people at AR that we've encountered the best AR person that we worked with was pretty.
3:39
Dang strategic and how they thought about it, how they talk to people how they approach the conversations.
The timing of their a, our follow-up, the different approaches.
They would take whether it was a direct pay, you know, same old job that we were collecting money on from the actual homeowner itself or whether it was the way that they approached adjusters, how they would talk to them in helping you'll get final approval on getting payments made.
4:04
Or if it was a person, a carrier that they were talking to.
It's a really nuanced roll.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think it does require.
Fire or can require a higher level of social awareness.
Let's put it that way.
4:19
Yeah, I think the struggle with, you know, more of a sales role and I know this isn't what I know that verbage has a lot of baggage for people.
Yeah, it almost gets to categorized, right?
But no, there's two things that stand out to me.
When we talk about accounts receivable or collection activities, one is it's a team sport and I think that's actually where we get it wrong.
4:38
Is that we we can talk about this a little bit but operational staff, right?
Project managers technical staff.
We are going after the freshest Target at all times.
It's like, you know, a lot of these roles are paid on a commission basis.
4:54
I think a lot of these roles that are interacting in the collection process are often dealing with lots of files, right?
Lots of projects and so it's we're all kind of running around with our hair on fire and so it's like the newest shiniest.
Newest Target, newest contract.
5:11
Those can become prioritized by a All over finishing, strong finishing well, and collecting getting the most efficiently.
And I think so remind me right with this because this is a little bit more free form.
This isn't necessarily a training exercise.
5:27
So we're going to bat around this topic a little bit.
We're going to freeform with this topic a little bit, so, help me remember, coming back to this idea that it's really finishing.
Strong has a profound impact on our ability to collect, and so I do want to come back to that, but no, so two things, right?
I think it's a team sport.
5:43
And be like you said this collection, activity requires some strategic thinking, some quick, on your feet, higher levels of social awareness, for those individuals to do it well.
And we see this time and time again, not only in our own businesses, our background and our business, but even with our clients like when you talk to someone and they've got their stuff together at the center of it, there's this person that's really prioritizing The Collection activity and they're smart.
6:13
Like they have a way of thinking about it.
There's a finesse to there's a finesse to it.
Yeah, there's a finesse to it but it's a team sport guys.
This is everyone on the team needs to participate.
It's like you and I talked about sales, team sport.
Yep.
Everyone has a role when generating sales, and I think collections is the same way.
6:31
So where do you want to start on this, man?
How do you want to get, you know?
I don't know, there's so many different directions we could go because as you're even talking about that some of the different angles are coming to me.
So for example, we've spent so much Effort to build relationship with our client.
6:47
Our adjuster contacts at the carrier reporting back, effectively.
And collaborating with the agent office, right to build up that referral partner relationship.
We put so much effort into our jobs and I think a lot of times we just kind of with it.
We just kind of throw the collections process to chance.
7:05
Yeah, and I think because we do that, it's possible actually burn a relationship in the collections process that otherwise, Wise was going really well and it could be that our collections person took a hard line like got too aggressive too fast in that collections process wasn't sensitive didn't ask any good questions about, maybe where the files add, what the holdup could be.
7:29
They weren't curious, they weren't humble.
Yeah, they just kind of took this systemic hard-edged approach size fits, all not.
Can really burn a client.
Yeah.
And so I think there's that part of it is this disconnect when it comes to our customer.
It's because we talked about this a lot with our clients, your customer experience.
7:49
It's the sum of all of a customer adjuster referral Partners experiences with your brand from the very first interaction and exposure.
They have to your company to the most recent.
Yeah.
And oftentimes that most recent or that last interaction was our pursuit of collecting the check getting the payment and so we have to deal with that as just another Were part of the customer experience process.
8:15
Yeah.
And so I think there's something there is just changing how we think about collections as just another step in the customer experience process.
And just by doing that I think it'll put the right priority.
Yeah, on that part.
Yep.
I think another direction we can go to that we probably should touch on.
8:33
Is what are you?
Okay.
So we can put the right person in that role and what does that make me look like?
What kind of profile makes for a great AR person that we can?
On that a little bit but then okay, if we find ourselves in a cash flow crisis, which often at least has something to do with where our AR and are aging is at what do we do like what do you do to crawl out of that hole?
8:56
Because holy cow, this has happened more than once where we'll find out from a client.
They just had a great year.
We're all focused on, we had a great year, we had a great quarter holy cow we booked a million dollars worth of business in q1.
This is looking to be our best year ever and then we start Digging we start peeling the layers away and we realize, holy cow.
9:18
Yeah, we did a million dollars worth of business but we've only collected thus far 250 of it.
Yeah.
What in the world is going on?
We got six hundred grand of that or 750 of that out hanging.
Yeah, we're essentially being the bank, right?
9:35
And what happens after 90 days and you haven't collected the 100% a majestic actually Gonna Get Ya, who knows what the percentage drop off.
Is daily after that, right?
Or even after 60 days.
So I think we do want to talk about that.
We'd because there is some tactical things that when we found ourselves in that situation, which we have more than once.
9:53
What do you do?
What tone do you set, what steps do you take to recover and get your AR back in a healthy position?
Yeah and then maybe I think if we're going to talk about that then we can also reflect a little bit on.
Okay.
What are some practical like rhythms or behaviors?
10:10
So it doesn't get is out of control.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah, so I don't know.
Where do we want to start with that?
What's your thought?
That's good.
So let's more your wheelhouse.
I mean, admittedly being the sales guy and being stuck in that side of the business.
I haven't had to deal with like Hands-On.
10:26
Yeah.
As much as you have certainly.
Yeah.
And you know what the reality of it is is cash flow and collections can be a really intimidating subject regardless of what side of the fence they are on, but I think also there's a reality that it actually can be a really Fairly easy system to put into place and can be followed on a consistent basis.
10:50
And when it is, it really does take a lot of the anxiety out of the collection activity.
It's always amazing to me, and I've experienced it firsthand.
I've done it, I've been in the shoes.
How often is operators people in the field that we just are so uncomfortable to talk about money and our uncomfortableness actually just exponentially Builds on what the clients already feeling.
11:12
And here's a reminder Okay.
Customers are not afraid to talk about money.
There's all sorts of Stress and Anxiety are ready from their position because most of the time, we're talking about events that are sudden and not planned.
Their anxiety is over the unknown about the money and the process.
11:33
So true.
So if we're very diligent stewarding, our customer and building the conversation about the financials as part of our initial process setting, good expectation.
Good expectations.
Not only is it a comfortable conversation to have but your client actually is really thankful for the fact that you've addressed the elephant in the room.
11:54
So before we spin out on a little Nuance, right?
Because I think that's a little, it's a tactical component.
Let's do this, let's break it up this way and I'm spitballing here, but this will give us some framework.
Let's focus on three different places.
Let's talk about our behaviors with our client, our behaviors As with the carrier / adjuster and our behaviors as leadership and accountability.
12:20
What do you think that's good?
In fact, can I lead off?
Yeah, I'll lead us in a direction on the our behaviors.
And I've got what you just started.
Hit on was setting a good expectation with regard to the money.
Yeah, time.
And I would guess, and you tell me if my hypothesis is Right during both of our times is Summit, one of the things you developed was the restoration checklist as part of our process because What we were seeing observing hearing from clients over and over with regard particularly to Resto.
12:50
But I think this could be said, for all of what we do and disaster restoration.
Yeah, our average customer has no idea what to expect, right?
And how the process is going to unfold up from the moment.
They have their toilet, overflow to the post construction cleaning and punch this walkthrough.
The customer doesn't know what to expect, right?
13:07
Right.
And money is just one part of that, but money is certainly.
One of the things that people are freaked out about how he knows people.
L don't understand their insurance coverage.
They don't understand what their obligations are going to be, right?
And I remember when you created that restoration checklist, one of the things on there because I've had opportunities to sit down and go through that meeting with clients is just stepping them through the money yet what's going to happen?
13:31
Yeah.
And talking them through the different variables in terms of hey when the insurance company issues the check there's a good chance that both your bank and you are going to be written on that, check, right.
And here's what that's going to mean for us.
Right, right?
You're going to receive that check.
You have to endorse it.
13:47
Sign it over to us, right?
Unpacking like very specifically, what's going to happen and it seems like to me when I look back that once we deployed that restoration checklist document in the context of having a restoration, checklist meeting with the customer.
14:04
So our once we got our estimators to do that every single time when we start build back on a project overall that stabilized, ar-ar-ar, Aging process?
Yeah, I think it certainly was not the Silver Bullet.
It was one of the elements, right?
14:19
The when executed on a consistent basis had a positive impact.
Yeah.
Like when we would talk about it ahead of time.
Yep.
There was less variability.
There's less confusion.
Yeah, yeah.
So let's start there.
So, when we think about, when we think about collections, I think it is there's an element of somewhat.
14:37
There's some compartmentalization that happens but again, it's a team sport.
So let's just start with the client interaction studies.
Expectations.
Talking about process, talking about who's going to be on giraffes when drafts are going to be delivered to us as the contractor blah blah blah, right?
14:52
So let's start with that.
You hit on a perfect example, your team members need to be equipped and I think we're we're talking about this is not necessarily at a tech level.
Although, I would petition that I actually believe in a continued advancement and what things a technician is addressing on a loss.
15:13
I Ali feel like as an industry, we have really pigeon-holed technical staff into a very limited capacity at the end of the day.
If we want people growing loyal adapting, I think we need to have higher levels of expectations on our technical staff.
15:29
It also allows us to pay him more and be more competitive in a wage war but that's a whole different topic.
Anyways, when we're talking about your team members being a part of the collection process or the communication with your client, we're probably Mentally talking about project managers estimators and probably your division leadership, right?
15:48
So a damn it level.
You probably have a division leader, that's doing that.
Here's the thing.
Those roles and up should be very competent on the funding process of every claim.
Meaning internally, you need to be teaching as part of a performance indicator, you need to be teaching your project managers and estimators to have a very competent perspective on where the money comes from, how its distributed what that process looks like.
16:17
Because even if an estimator as an example is the one that is walking a client three checklist or a process outline.
We need to remember that the financial conversation is happening over and over and over from the very beginning to the very end of a project.
16:35
Which means if your project manager, is your primary client hand holder, they need to be very comfortable having The conversation because when change orders come up when supplements are happening.
If we're talking budgets with a client part of that conversation, also needs to be cash flow on that particular project, which includes them being fluent in the insurance side of it from.
17:00
Yeah, and point of understanding how the payments are going to flow from the carrier.
In terms of the depreciated initial payment, a CV payment versus a replacement cost payout.
Yeah, that comes after the fact.
It's prizing to me.
Now, of course I have an insurance background, so it's, I guess I'm a little bit.
17:17
I'm coming at it from a different angle but it surprises me in the industry.
How few estimator project manager, level and and technician because I think this is something they can understand.
Oh yeah, right.
It's a good for them to understand this even if we're not asking them to engage in a conversation.
17:34
Oh yeah science.
Yeah I'm surprised at how few field.
Level leaders understand the AC V versus replacement cost.
Yeah.
Aspects of policies because I mean we live and die by insurance coverage.
Yeah.
Most of our businesses right are predominantly funded by Insurance revenue and we don't know this and it can be very confusing to the homeowner business owner as these payments start to flow, what's happening?
18:00
Like they get an ACV and adjusted initial payment or like, why the heck are they only given us 125,000?
Like, this should have been 380,000 is what will allow Jolla?
Here's how it works.
It's not the end.
Yeah.
Anytime we can avoid this applies to so many areas of the business anytime we can preempt those kind of confusing stressful moments benefits us and the customer and a referral Partners everybody without a doubt because it's such an emotional thing.
18:28
Yeah.
When people feel like they're getting surprised.
Yeah with - information it knocks the whole project off-kilter it does.
Like how many times have we seen?
That was just a misunderstanding.
Yeah, but the client gets worked up.
They get spun out the story.
18:43
The Head Start.
Oh yeah.
And all of a sudden we went from having just a very simple misunderstanding to.
Now we're having to rebuild customers trust.
Yeah.
Maybe somehow they think we did something wrong or we communicated something poorly.
Yeah, in reality it's just we failed to communicate in advance, right of that thing happened yet.
19:02
This is likely to happen.
Yeah, right.
Yeah and what we see in those situations, we got to be careful not to spin out on every one of these.
But what happens often in those situations to is that because they really Don't know.
You from Adam yet.
They start going to everyone else for.
19:18
Hey, what's your thought on this?
Like, this is what the contractor says, it's worth.
Here's what I got from the carrier, right?
So they have all these opportunities to hear often people that do not have any experience in our industry, giving them all this advice and input on what's happening because we didn't own that part of the conversation and set the tone for it, from the very beginning.
19:39
And so, getting back on track, here's where we're at a, your team needs to Trained in such a way that they understand the ins and outs right of this.
It needs to be incorporated into your initial introductory process.
IE High client where the team.
19:54
Here's the team players.
Here's the financial aspects.
Here's how money is going to flow in and out of this project guys to include stop work policies.
Okay, so we understand that we're working with clients that have not saved money.
20:09
They have not been sitting around for six months picking out their new tile choices.
Isis.
These are often sudden events.
Our clients are stuck in an awkward position when this happens while we're negotiating with the carrier's.
Getting funds approved, getting an agreed-upon scope.
20:24
We feel the urge to want to get work started for our client and that's appropriate, but this is not retail construction often.
This is, there are things that need to be approved before we can start work.
Otherwise you are putting your company at risk and you're putting the Client at risk, having some kind of out-of-pocket exposure that they didn't need to have.
20:49
And so there is this reality that we want to get started immediately on a job.
But in order for you to have a sustainable business, you cannot be spending money.
You do not know you have, you're not a bank here, not a bank, not a financial institution, you've got to have some funds to be working with however, finding some balance because of the Nuance of our industry.
21:09
Let's get some work started.
Let's identify within our Ization.
What's a fair?
And appropriate level of work to get started?
Here's an example.
I've got a home who's had, not only the finished floor and underlayment removed but maybe we've even cut into some subfloor.
21:25
All right, how long are we going to have a client's it with a hole right to the out-of-doors if you will or into their crawl space?
While we're negotiating?
A scope of work will come on.
Let's use common sense.
We know from a client experience, we're not going to do that but we're not going to keep spending and hopes that we get an agreed-upon.
21:43
Establish.
So, let's go ahead and set some thresholds, right?
Based on the size of company.
You are based on this type of jobs that you consistently do, what's a safe number that you and your team can spend on and monitor in your whip that once you start to see that threshold approaching and you haven't gotten funds collected on that job, you know, when to push the stop button, right?
22:07
So it allows us to manage our client relationship, get some progress started.
But at the same time, we don't Extend ourselves and get our compromise or company.
So establish that you guys build that into your process with your team establish what your stop work policy is and then again as we're teaching our client and communicating to them the collection process, we're talking to them about what a stop work policy.
22:30
Looks like here's what we want to do to help you and get you started please understand.
We do not want to expose you to any out-of-pocket exposure.
We can't get really heavy until your project until we've got Was from the carrier and funds are starting to get released.
22:46
However, we're going to go ahead and get started doing these things.
Please understand if we don't have this much money by such and such date, we would have to potentially stop your project or pause.
Here's what our teams going to do to try to prevent that.
Here's the roll mr.
And mrs.
Client that you have and helping us so that we don't have to do that as well.
23:04
So, again, we're not going to go into every nitty-gritty ounce of this but teacher team, your team needs to be competent on the carrier.
On the collection process where money's coming from who's named on Bank drafts, right?
The works.
We need to be talking to our client about that from the very beginning to include establishing training and discussing our stop work policy with our client, all right?
23:31
Here's the other thing that I would say staying in our client communication practices in regards to funds, change orders upgrades.
So we're not going to go way in depth on this.
But guys, if you're operating without a change order form, that's being signed, and dated by your client, you're wrong.
23:49
So figure that out and we would be more than happy to help with that.
Customer selections form of some sort is another critical document.
Again, we're signing dating, right?
But Changers, let's talk about that as part of our communication with a client, most of our clients, especially, if we're doing a great job, proactively leading them.
24:09
Most people do not want to put their house back, exactly.
As it was Was prior to the loss.
They want to be back to a like-kind position but most of us if we have our house tour up for any reason, finally, this is the opportunity, right?
24:25
And this is part of that client experience that we get to have.
The it's like this situation kind of sucked, but since we're here and I'm leading you, well, and we're being great stewards to the relationship isn't now kind of the time to explore some of those things you wanted to do.
Anyways and granite countertop, open floor plan but I got it right, right.
24:43
And so, This is that opportunity to get to walk your client through that provide, some good competent numbers.
And then guys, here's the critical piece, get some money down.
When it comes to upgrades my perspective and we hear a lot of operators coming from.
24:58
This is if they do not have the funds to give you a significant down payment on that work, we may have a bigger issue in front of us than we really want to consider.
So when it comes to change orders, we really aggressively Do a significant down payment on those items.
25:15
So, here's an example, again, you tweak your process to fit your team, 50% down before we start that element.
And the remaining when that particular piece is done, not the whole project, right?
So really looking at change orders as an isolated component, within the loss, as a whole.
25:34
Now, many of you are probably saying, well, what happens when they're trying to use or move some of the funds to do one thing to do something else again, we understand that.
We understand there's Is that come up about that meaning you know they had a laminate top, they want to upgrade, we're talking about that difference in price, right?
25:52
So they had laminate they're owed laminate, they're getting compensated for lament great, that's awesome.
But they want to go ahead and upgrade to Granite.
Let's just collect on that difference.
That's what we're talking about.
There's no insurance proceeds for that.
That's an out of pocket expense.
26:07
They either have the money or they don't and so let's do that.
And that again these are all the little things that begin to add.
Add up to have a profound impact on our cash flow.
So using changer to documents and requiring some down payments.
And this is the correct thing that we're reviewing on a consistent basis in our production meetings, right?
26:25
This is part of the review of the work in progress, documentation that we're looking at, as a dashboard, every single week.
Yep.
Right.
Yeah.
And we're going to get in that, I think.
Let's hang there because I think that there's the accountability leadership Behavior kind of the mentality behind.
26:42
This is a Will big component?
I think I want to end with that.
Okay.
I kind of hang out in that space towards the end because it's really, that's where the whole team sport component.
I think comes into play.
So again, man in there's so much to talk about in this, but again, we're training, our field staff were making this part of our standard communication process with our client.
27:02
We're establishing stop work policies regarding funds collected versus expenses and then we're really doing a great job of being diligent about collecting upfront on.
Change orders or significant changes in scope that the clients adding not being afraid of that conversation because I know we are sometimes afraid of just opening up, a can of worms.
27:23
Yeah, they'll just be more and more questions, more and more to deal with me while we got 15 files.
We're trying to process, right?
And it's just gonna, it's the Pandora's Box.
Yeah, better to just do what the customers is asking and we'll figure out money later.
No, that's how we get into trouble.
27:39
That's how we get in trouble.
That's how people go out of business.
Really, the other Here to is I it is I think teams need to understand in some of this is happening less and less.
And I don't want to pretend to know everything about the Nuance of this and how it's impacting our industry.
27:54
Right now, it's actually something that I'm really eager to get a guest on in the near future, to talk about the banking side of this because I think all too often.
We're not actually hearing much from the bank's perspective on the insurance loss experience.
So, let's pursue that at some point, but a big thing to remember here is that Is that there are normally some element of funds that get released right away at the beginning of the claim process.
28:19
Most of the time, we know those are some form of depreciated funds, right?
We need to be asking questions at the beginning of the loss of has an adjuster come out.
Have you received initial funds, and then explaining what those often look like.
28:34
Because I think it's easy from a customer's perspective to be in this place of well I only got 50 Grand or ten Grand, whatever the number is and they thinking And this is it, this is the end of the purse.
And I think part of again, competently walking our client through the process of reminding them that?
28:52
Yes, there's often some initial funds that are dispersed on the claim.
It's meant to be used to get the claim process, initiated to start work with your contractor but that there's still this live negotiation that's happening.
That being said we need to get those funds that have been released so that our team can get started on your behalf and just Not being afraid again to dive in ask questions.
29:16
Get some clarity on what they know and then fill in the gaps, take the time to fill in the gaps of your client's understanding and go ahead and get some of those initial funds.
Are those depreciated funds into process?
Whether it be at the bank so that I can become cash flow, or checks being endorsed over to your team and getting those into the bank, okay?
29:36
Those are the big elements and again, I understand we're probably missing some of the little, the little Nuance here.
We're just To give some broad perspective on what we're doing with our client.
How are we behaving with our client in regards to money?
And again, reminding everybody guys.
29:52
As part of our weekly updates, our communication updates to our client.
You shouldn't be going long periods of time without something to do with the collection process.
Money funds for the project being part of that update being part of the ongoing communication.
30:08
What do you say do?
Yeah, I think we know about that.
I mean, I feel like that section is it's impossible to it too much.
Yeah.
On the money thing.
Yep.
Early on in the process, like the more we talk about it, the easier it is to actually collect.
Yeah.
So it really is it really is hey and one thing I want to remind so four teams that have an internal person that's really going to specialize in collections, whether it be an administrative rule or whatever, introduce that person's name to your client right away because we're going to talk about this.
30:36
I think, at the end when we go over, kind of this attitude overall attitude Behavior towards collections.
We do compartment.
Is on this really hard like we had, it's easy for project managers to go.
Well, I just get the job done.
Someone else is going to handle collections.
Whatever the case may be, and even as we're trying to create efficiency, we're trying to make sure that everybody on the team is focused on the right things at the right time, it makes sense in your business model to have someone that that's all they do is eat sleep and breathe collections, we can talk more about that if that's the case get that person introduced to your client right away.
31:11
So that when that person calls and begins to Checked with your client on their behalf.
The name makes sense.
It's not.
Well, I don't even know who I'm talking to in your company anyway, anymore.
You know all the things that right that unravel.
Let's go ahead and introduce that person to the process so that they can get started as quickly as possible man.
31:29
Yeah, okay, let's jump categories.
What do we do when we get into a crisis?
Okay, are we ready to go?
Let's hit adjusters first.
Okay.
Yeah, I want to hang in that space and you guys here's the thing when it comes to carrier, Stir, communication.
31:45
I think we'll touch on a couple things here.
There's so much here, and you guys know this out.
There guys are grinding day in and day out.
This is tough, these relationships are strained, often, and it's just difficult.
So, my goal with this piece, Chris as we jump into this, a little bit is to remind folks that even challenging relationships with adjusters.
32:06
We need to understand what the world kind of looks like from their eyes because often it comes across as Malicious intent, or combativeness.
And then we feed into that story and it just can get way out of hand, guys.
The reality of it is is the same strain and pressure.
32:24
You feel from running 20 jobs at a time.
These adjusters are experiencing often at even a greater level, the workload that most adjusters and I would dare say now more So currently the over consolidation all the things right that Happening, adjusters are operating with so many stink and files man their hair and ass is on fire, right?
32:51
Like it's not.
So let's remember that when we're working with our adjusters.
Okay.
So here's here's some things to consider when we're negotiating a scope with an adjuster, here's a practice, I would encourage you in.
This is not concrete.
33:07
It's really an opinion.
It's a professional opinion.
Don't have your client tagged.
In all your communication with an adjuster when you're negotiating, there's a difference between negotiating and then following up to find out where the money is.
33:25
And I want to talk about that because I think it's important.
I remember early in my career we used to be right and run teams for the most part.
So estimators also ran their own jobs and we had this scenario, where I had an amazing new estimator not from an experience perspective, but just the right personality.
33:43
Sales through and through they just could get ink.
They took really good care of a client, just dialed in.
And I remember getting a call from an adjuster who was absolutely out of his mind pissed off.
And the reason he was so frustrated, is that from this adjusters perspective?
34:00
What he felt like had happened is that my project manager had gotten that adjuster in the room with a client and was having scope negotiation conversations in front of the client and the Custer felt backed into a corner.
Now, going back and sitting down with my project manager, that wasn't the intent at all.
34:20
In fact, it was probably more, so just making sure everybody's on the same page, which we've all been in those shoes.
Sure.
But from the adjusters perspective, and that's where this has come up before is guys, when we're negotiating scope, there's things that the adjusters and us is operators, understand about the process that our clients, do not, and we need to be negotiating as Niles with the adjuster, with the carrier to the point where if we do reach a point where there were not talking the same language anymore because of attitudes and Egos and things like that, then sure.
34:53
We get our client engaged.
But until that happens.
Let's give the adjuster the benefit of the doubt.
Let's have two conversations to a conversations from industry professionals till we get on the same page about what we're doing.
Now, once that scope negotiation is done and you've got an agreement and it's time to talk when money is delivered.
35:13
Boom.
Now it's time to get our client engaged in that communication chain, that email chain, so everyone's on the same page.
So when the adjuster confirms with you X money dollars is being sent on such and such date, we don't have a client three weeks later, that act surprised that there was ever any money getting released on their job, right?
35:33
But again, remember that guys, there's a difference between negotiations versus follow-up because we've got a scope established, right?
So that's always a big thing for me.
Here's the other, Thing guys and this should be a practice, not a Shoulda Coulda.
This will be a Difference Maker.
35:49
All of us are busy.
All of us have too many files.
All of us have too many clients that were trying to take care of at any given moment when you send an adjuster and estimate set a calendar.
Reminder, for three days out.
Okay, set it out, put it in writing, follow up like a bloodhound.
36:05
Hey adjuster.
I'm just calling to follow up to make sure you got my bid package.
My invoice package.
My estimate.
Whatever.
Because what you don't want to do is say, well there's no way they're going to have time in the next few days to get to it.
You're probably right, but we don't want to wait two weeks and because we haven't heard anything now, all the sudden we're calling the adjuster and guess what?
36:26
The, adjuster tells you when you finally get a hold of them.
Oh, you sent your estimate?
Oh, I never even saw that.
So, now, we're two weeks into our collection process.
They haven't even got the documentation to review.
Now, granted, some of this can be an excuse, that's not the point, right?
So, here's that practice.
36:43
Send your bid package out, set a calendar.
Reminder three days later, follow-up.
And again, hey, reaching out, just making sure that you got my information, okay?
Then we're going to go ahead and set that follow-up, reminder every week on the calendar, so that someone's doing it until the cash is collected.
37:01
Now, here's our piece on this, the initial phases of collections.
Again, this is an opinion.
I believe professionally that your operational staff should be Be leading that conversation until we know that funds are dispersed or being dispersed.
37:19
And again unless you have someone in your collections team that has a lot of experience and can actually answer technical questions about that scope of work.
You want your operational staff in that conversation because what happens is you get an adjuster on the phone and unless you have the ability to address Copa just scope answer those technical Since how many phone calls will it take to get the answer you're looking for.
37:47
So there's two ways to address that one.
Is you either keep your operational staff engaged in the collection process until an approval is given in a funds will be given on such and such date or you teach your collection staff.
That is soon as they get an adjuster on the phone.
38:04
If there's question or pushback do not allow that adjuster off the phone.
You say, hey, can I just put you on hold for just a moment because I know you're busy and for the sake of time, let me get the p.m. right or the estimator on that job on the phone right now.
38:19
Let's get your questions answered so we can get this thing wrapped up.
Okay, but that's however you address that problem.
The point is, once you get a busy adjuster on the phone, do not let him go, until you can get some answers, okay?
And that's just one thing to consider in that process.
38:36
Again, I want to touch base on this busyness thing.
There's two things to remember, either you need to remember that the squeaky wheel is going to get the He's so you need to be the professional squeaky wheel.
The other thing to remember, is your adjusters are busy, they don't hate you.
They don't hate you, they don't hate the client, they may hate their job but it's often not malicious intent.
38:55
It's just a matter of them being busy and they're trying to do what they can do.
Can we also just talk really quickly before we move on to the next thing about an elephant in the room in our industry?
And that is how often is money stuck in the pipeline?
39:11
Because we don't have Have good supporting documentation.
Oh my God, the things that were billing for, right?
How often do we come across?
That because we have a broken or incomplete mitigation process outline you.
We're skipping steps.
We aren't training our technician, our field staff, effectively, to be consistently collecting the kind of photo documentation notes, moisture logs, Etc, that are necessary to quickly get adjusters to sign off on payment, right?
39:42
Well, and I'll tell you More often than not.
It's because no one's told the technician.
Why the documentation is important, exactly.
They've been told this is what we do sometimes at best, and they've been told do this or die, but they've never been told, hey, when you do this really well, this increases our ability to get paid in a short period of time, which allows me to continue to provide benefits competitive wages.
40:09
Right?
Teach your team.
Yeah.
Like they're not.
Incompetent.
They're not buffoons.
They're humans with intellectual levels and they can understand the process.
That's just got to share it with them.
Yeah, yeah.
Hey we want to be the easy button for these adjusters.
Here's how we do it.
40:25
It's you collecting.
Awesome photos.
It really tells a story of the loss and the stuff that we're building for a great matter Port scans.
All the things great.
Yeah, you know?
That's huge.
And again, you're right.
F9 notes.
Like, please do as much problem solving as you can prior to submitting your bid.
40:43
Kid just omit package, invoice package.
Whatever you want to call it.
Remember adjusters have employers, they have bosses, they have protocols.
They have internal processes, they have to follow.
They have performance appraisals.
They're going to get.
They have wages.
40:58
They're concerned about.
They have retirement packages that are worried about when you send half-ass documentation and poorly supported packages in they now have twice as much work to protect their own selves from their own internal processes in order to Get you paid, do the math, right?
41:15
Yeah, do the math?
Yeah.
No, I think that's huge.
We're trying to partner first.
Yep, there's dirt bags in the mix.
Don't get me wrong, sure.
But look at your bid, how easy is it without someone having 20 years experience to read what it is that you're submitting and say there's an argument for the things you're trying to charge for?
41:33
I can judge if I get pressed because either I think that's something we lose track of is that adjuster nine times out of ten has somebody they're accountable to.
So if somebody Looks at that payment audits that file.
Yep.
And says why in the world did you approve that they have to have a good answer?
41:50
You have to feed them.
The story.
The answer to that question, right?
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
Okay.
I think we end on the.
How do we get ourselves out of a really bad predicament?
But let's go into kind of this kind of broader overview leadership. / accountability in regards to this whole collections aging, a, our titles or somewhere.
42:13
Battle rhythms, we can put in place.
Yeah, exactly.
The first thing that stands out to me is, how are we talking about this in a production meeting?
And for those of you that may not be doing a production meeting, let's be clear on what that looks like Chris and I in this is from our own experience in this is working with some really great people and great operators with very large businesses, you've got to have battle rhythms to your week, to your month, even down to your days of these are consistent accountability Behavior.
42:43
Interactions communication methodologies that were using to do business, right?
One of those things is we just believe with 100% certainty that at minimum once a week.
You and your key team members need to get together and review your live work.
43:00
And during this meeting we're talking about things like margins jobs that have been approved.
But haven't been started yet or talking about work.
That is moved into work in progress and we're talking about cost.
US versus funds collected, write these critical aspects of live projects.
43:18
You've got to be doing this on a weekly basis.
We believe that marketing teams, your key marketing Personnel, not necessarily the entire team should be engaged in that because that's our opportunity to see.
What is that job doing?
How does that affect my referral relationship over here?
43:34
How can I help as a salesperson?
Keep the customer and referral experience optimal, right?
And then finally collections what, What are our job?
Where is the funds at?
Where's money at?
And here's what we think is really important for part of this meeting.
When we see an account start to reach 30 days, whoever it is, that's overseeing whether it be an administrative role, one of the key leaders and owner whoever's really owning The Collection process needs to speak up when they're seeing red flags.
44:05
And anytime we look at our aging and we see something Beyond 30 days, it hits that 31 to 60 day, mark.
All of us should start having the hair stand up on the back of our neck, not 60 days, not 90 days, not 180, but 31 know, right?
44:21
Once that happens we as leaders should note it be asking questions and if you're the person from an administrative perspective, get people's attention.
Hey p.m. so and so I need your help.
We should have had some monies collected.
It looks like the customer has it.
44:37
I'm having a tough time, reaching them, right?
This is a team sport again.
Everyone needs to prioritize.
As Collections and everyone has just a little bit different relationship with the client little bit more push-pull often.
We will see a project manager has a great relationship with their client when our admin staff tries to make contact with the client.
44:57
It really doesn't go anywhere.
As soon as the PM calls talks to the client Movement, we got money.
Yep.
Team sport.
It's why we believe these conversations should happen every week as part of your production meeting.
That's a big one, which is a perfect segue into Some tactics.
45:14
What do we do?
When things?
Do you get sideways?
They balloon out of control.
Yep.
Which we've experienced.
Yeah, I mean in my mind there was there was a really dramatic one where we won't use numbers, you know, we won't use numbers where, you know, we ran up some available credit we had you know, that number just kept growing and there was a variety of factors.
45:35
Yeah.
All of which we talked about right?
Where we got into a stint sometimes it was like in this one particular situation is coming off the heels of a Huge catastrophe, you know, Regional weather event.
That just drove a huge volume of business where we had to adapt and overcome.
45:51
Yeah, we maybe weren't being as diligent and consistent with our supporting documentation.
Yeah, and so, is that plus people run around with their hair on fire, plus, plus plus, yeah, it's all the same things, you're all experiencing all the same things, everybody else experiences.
46:07
So how do we crawl out of that?
And if you want to kind of unpack that.
Yeah.
So first and foremost, Most leaders.
You guys need to understand that there are times where we need all hands on deck and there are times that we as leaders have not done the best job possible to hold our team accountable to good collection practices and we slip into these spaces that are scary.
46:31
Those are the moments now for us to step in and and first off, admit that we've had some failure as a leader and really own the fact that you play a critical role in allowing that Spiral to take place and I've been in those uncomfortable shoes more than once and they do not fit well and I hate it but there's a reality that the team needs to hear you as a key leader as the apex predator in your company.
46:56
Say really, there is a lot of this.
That is my fault for allowing it to get to this place.
Here's why that's important.
Even if your team doesn't follow suit and admit all their wrongdoings and how they got there, the tone has been set.
47:12
They know if Few who they know very well is not the one on the phone calls.
Yeah, is saying I have a part to play in this they're going to accept or be more likely to accept their role in the problem.
The other thing that you do in this moment is that you're setting the tone for this I need help.
47:30
This is a team sport.
This is all hands on deck, this is serious.
The blame game is not the win, but noting it's a problem and it's time to come up with a strategy to overcome it.
Those are all Key elements.
That's good leadership.
Really, really is.
47:45
And this is where it comes out, that this is not just an admin problem, correct?
Yeah, exactly.
That's where the whole team sport thing comes back into play.
We have to start by acknowledging.
How did we get here?
What role did I play?
Is the key leader in this particular situation and then we need to devise a divide-and-conquer strategy, IE we need to look at the players on our team and determine who can play What role in this.
48:11
And then we need to literally We look at these aging accounts and assign them in groups to whoever is going to participate in this recovery program, whether it be estimators, whether it be your key leaders and ownership team, who are the players, identify those people take your group of Aging accounts, identify the best personality, maybe because of their exposure to the job, or it was one of their projects or whatever.
48:35
The case, maybe they have a better relationship with the adjuster, whatever use some form of a prioritization.
To assign that group of accounts to the appropriate person and then begin establishing measurables IE.
Here's how many phone calls we want to make a day.
48:53
Here's the time window of day.
We want to make it because let's say a lot of these account representatives are on the East Coast, whatever and you devise a strategy.
And then, as the key leader, it is your job to Monitor and touch base on the execution and follow-through of that.
49:10
So here's just kind of a easy Oil.
We've got 10 accounts that are way out past 90 days.
Okay?
I have two people that are going to help me Chase this down.
I have an office manager and I have an estimator.
Let's say, okay and me.
We're going to divvy out those 10 files.
49:28
We are going to establish that.
We're each going to do so many phone calls a day, and that we're going to have a public space to note the accounts as we're making.
Those follow-up, phone calls and Gathering new information, right?
Who do I talk to You what date and time did.
49:44
I talk to him?
When did they say payment was going to go out, blah, blah blah.
And then we're just reviewing that strategy and checking in with the team daily until we get our goal met.
Now this might be counter and we actually had a conversation with a client like this.
50:02
Not that long ago, guys.
It's okay to gamify this a little bit.
It's okay to reward success here and I know that sounds counterintuitive because we're asking ourselves the question.
Question.
Well, didn't a lack of performance get us in this position the first place, right?
50:17
Maybe right.
Most likely there's some element of that, but do you want to be have a principle that you're right on or do you want your team to actually collect the money?
So, the bank accounts full?
Yeah.
Okay, these are humans, let's not try to turn this into something, it's not incentives.
50:33
Work incentives, work turning this into a positive engagement.
Works better than guilting the shit out of your team, until they do what they need to do.
Just Walk away from Woulda Coulda and get dialed in on.
Yeah, but what actions?
Right now.
We'll win the game and the actions are let's gamify it.
50:51
Let's track it.
Let's make it super public.
And let's reward the winds, even though these winds are kind of day late and a dollar short, right?
Okay.
And again, we see this all the time, it's like the principal and S is like, well I don't want to reward.
Yeah.
Hey, I'm rewarding bad behavior rewarding but no, you're not, you're getting rid of right and wrong and you're winning.
51:11
Yeah, winning is the point, right?
Right.
So anyways, I think that that's what we're talking about and again there is lots of nuance on how you do this but I think is that what you're doing and Intuit and also again because I'm coming from it as the VP of sales and marketing in a lot of our experience together.
51:28
This was not a primary part of my wheelhouse was the collections in the our process even though we think about it.
Very holistically like hey it's a team sport all that stuff.
What it felt like from my perspective is it was very much it was the One thing on the entire leadership teams lips for a period of two or three weeks while we processed through a multi hundred thousand dollar issue.
51:52
Yeah, and it was, it was all of us that normally were not having a ton of chatter with admin staff and and estimators where its daily interaction.
Yeah.
Hey, did you get a hold?
And so and so how that go, what they say?
Oh hold it.
52:08
You know, I have an answer for you.
I have that I have a file with that note or Or we get somebody on the phone.
It's like well hey I need those moisture logs.
I can't pay you guys on that and then it's the salesperson you know talking to that p.m. hey can you get me?
Those moisture logs, I need it.
I did get a hold.
They said they can pay us but they need this first.
52:25
There was a lot of collaboration that was abnormal.
It was different.
Yeah it became a project that all of us were engaged in.
No.
Absolutely.
And again I think because you kind of touch on the same principle again guys when you get to the position where this Is a crisis.
52:44
Yeah we've got a problem.
We have to look at that and say, how do I be as successful with this problem right now and do not spend an extra minute on the Woulda Coulda Shoulda right now?
52:59
What do we want to do?
Once we get all hands on deck and we get the problem solved and we get the ship righted then we go to hardcore work on refining process for extra getting back to the accountability having an after action review and see Seeing what we're going to do to prevent from getting in that position in the first place.
53:16
But I think like what you said it's like, what was part of that problem?
Well, we didn't have good documentation.
Well is now the time to sit and bitch and moan about not having the right documentation, or have someone tell you, it's not their job.
No, we're leading to win.
We've got to get out from under the problem that we've created for ourselves.
53:33
When it's over, then we do an after action review and we refine our process to make sure we don't get in that position again.
But in the meantime, while you're solving the problem, all hands on.
Act adapt and overcome not Woulda Coulda Shoulda, no time for it.
All right.
Okay, so these are tough, like you're a nice gig.
53:51
Is we summarize our shows, I feel like number one.
The number one takeaway is it's impossible to over communicate about money ahead of time at the beginning of the project.
Like the more we invest in educating our team, the technician the estimator project manager.
54:10
Certainly our admin Team all All involved ahead of time.
The more we invest in them, understanding how the money flows and how it works.
The better.
We're going to communicate with the client.
The less surprises, the clients going to have the less possibility of that client getting frustrated and weirded out, and calling their agent and complaining because they just don't understand.
54:29
Yeah.
And and creating a negative impression that later we have to overcome with the agent or the adjuster.
Right?
The more we invest in setting, good, clear expectations up front, the less we're going to run into collections thing.
On the back end, right?
And then, I think, the second thing that we touched on was the adjuster relation.
54:49
Oh yeah.
Like, are we an easy button, right?
Like how much of our effort, communication, follow-up notes, whatever.
Like how much are we doing with the background?
In our mind, with the understanding of these adjusters are more busy than they're even talking about?
55:06
They have employers, they have employees, all of those initiatives and processes really at the The end of the day of have not probably considered your company, they don't care.
So what are we doing to ensure that our billing packages are as easy to get approved as process as possible?
55:24
Do not hear me, say cheap.
I'm not saying cheap to the Bone competitive.
Whatever.
I'm saying, are we noting, are we providing documentation?
Are we telling the full story in our estimate, in our invoice?
So that an adjuster is not spending a bunch of time?
55:42
Acting the dots building a puzzle to see if they can get it approved.
Yep.
Spell it out.
Tell the story support.
What you've done?
Huge.
Totally and follow-up.
Yeah, consistent I think just to put a final cap on that adjuster piece, right?
It's us really thinking.
55:59
Critically of how can we make this process?
Not just good for our homeowner client but thinking of that, adjuster as a another internal client of ours.
Yeah, how do we Steward that relationship throughout the process?
To make it easy for them to give us money.
56:16
How do we protect that relationship?
And then the last thing, of course, is K, when we find ourselves in a crisis, you talked, about gamifying, it right?
Don't be afraid to just incentivize the behavior that you need.
Which is, we need to urgently collect this money.
We need to make it a focal point.
We need to put some time and date stamp on this, we need to set a target of by the end of this week.
56:36
We want to have X amount collected.
We want to assign roles.
Yeah, pick the proper roles.
In time of Crisis, it is an all-hands-on-deck kind of thing, right?
It's identified argue who would be the best person to go after these delinquent accounts.
56:52
Absolutely.
And then executing on it, just as though, you were setting a sales goal for your marketing team to go make X number of new referral partner connections.
Well, we're trying to collect on X number of accounts, by the end of this week, right?
It's definite.
It's a smart goal.
We make sure it's realistic, but we get aggressive and we make it a priority.
57:12
Yep.
Absolutely not an afterthought.
Yep, not in a quote admin thing but we make it a priority.
So I think that summarizes it.
I think that's all there one last thing.
Okay, it's the overall attitude about cash collections guys.
57:29
This is a team sport.
Do not be withholding information from your team.
Now I don't mean you need to let everyone in your team, read your PL but we need to all be educated on where the funds come from.
They get into the building, what role?
57:44
Everyone's going to play.
And this needs to be one of the primary scoreboard elements that you're reviewing on a weekly basis.
As part of your production staff meetings, how is our aging?
What has red flags?
What do we need to do to fix the problem sooner rather than later?
58:02
Okay, this is an education process.
There's why behind this teacher team team sport?
Get them engaged be proactive, right?
Okay, boom, thanks guys.
See you next time.
I'm alright everybody.
Hey, thanks for joining us for another episode of the mrm podcast, and if you got something out of it, share it with your friend hit, subscribe.
58:22
If follow leaves, five, star review.
Thanks a lot.