0:02
Welcome back to another episode of the mrm podcast.
I'm Chris and I'm Brandon join us as we discussed business Life and Legacy.
It's business time.
Christopher, how you doing?
I'm feeling good today and wear my hat.
I flipped the bill up.
0:19
It's just a thing I do.
Yeah it when I see it and this is not derogatory my friend.
Okay, I'm not I'm not putting you down but the first thing I think of is like Lance Armstrong on Mi 400 or something.
I don't even know how long they've race.
It's that look, it's the biker.
0:36
It's the person on a really long ass ride without a helmet because it helmets your dork.
He looking, right?
But that hat, it's like a Viking hat.
Only Dum Dums ride a bike without a helmet.
No, no.
But it just doesn't fit, is it?
Is that it is sort of that cycling hat look and I don't know why I think it's fun or why I like it good.
0:58
But you like it but it's just what I do.
Yes.
Oh, I like it a little embarrassed around.
All of my, you know, restoration buddies that have the flat bill, you know, the whatever it's not culturally appropriate, we're flipping the bill up, but it's just what I am.
1:13
There's that's wild and wacky.
So I feel good in my skin.
The moment.
I think that's a positive way to leave it in to our YouTube channel.
You see what Nordic looks like with his hat.
Bill up, his beard out.
Hopefully, we'll do a lot more next year.
But okay, dude, 2021 in the rear view mirror, right?
1:30
This will be the last show that we throw up here in the next week or so.
For 2021, we've started recording our sessions for next year, we really plan to hit the ground running.
We're really excited about that but But let's, let's just do an honest assessment of this last last year.
1:49
Kind of the good, the bad, the things we, we hit the mark on the things where yeah, it's like it was close maybe and then if we feel so inclined do a little bit of excitement forecasting, what do you think?
Yeah no I like it, I like it.
Yeah I mean where I'm at my head at the moment is just thinking about how much our perspective has changed in just the last eight, nine months.
2:12
Yeah.
You know just so mad.
Yeah, the people that we've met the clients that we worked with, I think even just starting this podcast was a really transformative move for us.
Yeah.
Because I think it's Force us to well it's Force Dusty.
2:29
Just yeah, into our out of our comfort zone and a lot of ways.
I mean this is really fun for you and I think it's been fun from day one but it's also been scary because it's like okay how much do we want to?
Share?
Are there things we should say.
Yeah, because they'll rub people the wrong.
Wrong way or it might alienate you know potential clients like I make your ass voicing an opinion or a perspective on something.
2:53
Like I don't want to work with those guys, so there's been kind of that figuring out.
What does it mean to be authentic versus being Reckless?
Because I'm well, I'm a huge believer in honesty and transparency.
I also realized sometimes we can say, things out of a sense of ego, too.
3:11
Like we see a lot of that.
Line.
Yeah, people just kind of wearing their emotions on their sleeve or complaining out loud or whatever.
It's like, you know what, not everybody needs to know every opinion, you hold.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Like is there real value.
3:26
Yeah.
Right.
Steer transparency.
So we've wrestled with that a little bit, I feel pretty good about you know, just anyway that's that's kind of been a growing Edge for us.
We're trying to figure that out like in the early days, the first you and I probably threw out 10 episodes.
3:42
Oh, before we publish It may be a lot anymore, and we had how many takes in the early days.
Now, we're down to pretty much one take.
Yeah, we want to be professional.
We, I want to be clear that we don't want to waste the, the attention, right of folks.
3:58
Like, you know, we understand that all of you as Business Leaders as business owners are busy, like bandwidth is a struggle.
Yeah, and we do not take that lightly like we, we don't want to step on that.
We don't want to ignore the validity or the weight of that.
4:14
And so we don't want opinions and perspectives to just be more crap.
Yeah, we want it to be valuable but at the same time we kind of made a commitment that we wanted to be willing to work through the ideas and the concepts openly.
Like these aren't necessarily everything is like it's totally vetted and figured out there's an element of you and I being leaders in our own spheres and just wanting to say this is what it looks like.
4:39
And sometimes it's rad and a lot of times it's just kind of sucks or it's broken or it doesn't go the way you want.
And yeah as Chris would say right?
It's not even a but it's and there's these really unique layers of experience that we get that.
4:57
Actually keep you motivated, even when things aren't necessarily going the way you want.
So like we wanted to stay in that place and capture a lot of that.
If you know it's been interesting to me is when I look back over our catalog of episode so far, and we look at how many plays, you know, how many downloads or plays or whatever you want to call it, each episode of Out some of our tactical episodes like our up so much Jerry edel.
5:18
Yeah, really good, right?
So if you're listening to this, you didn't pick up that up, so it's great.
You know, I'm sorry talks about sort of the changing landscape of how we build relationships with agents, in particular, which is that ground has shifted, right?
Yeah.
From the old smiles and Candy thing.
5:33
Blah blah blah.
And so there was there's a lot of interest.
In fact, last time I checked it was our number one episode the most listened to or whatever that's great.
And the episodes that People have most texted you and I about.
Yeah, like we've gotten texts from past clients and Industry relationships and people direct messages on LinkedIn and so forth.
5:54
Have been the ones that you and I were most scared to release totally because they felt so gut-level transparent.
Like we were just rolling over like a dog, you know?
Just like showing our belly.
Yeah.
And those seem to be the ones that have elicited reactions.
6:11
Like people have felt something And, you know, I've talked about this a lot, there's something inside all of us that feels alone in certain things, and we were just chatting about this before the show like, especially as a leader.
I forget who first said this to me, but it's so Universal.
6:28
We've all heard it, right?
It's Lonely at the Top.
Yeah.
Yes.
And it's there so many reasons for that.
Of course, there's lots of things we can do to prevent, oh, of course, of course.
However, there's just this there is this thing and I don't know that leaders ever fully get away from.
6:46
It is there's just things, there's choices we make as Leaders, they're really hard.
Yeah, we're we're no one's happy with us.
Yeah, it's sometimes you're choosing the lesser of two evils is he said earlier.
Yeah, yeah.
And there's just, there's tension in the role where we feel inadequate to the task sometimes.
7:05
We don't feel safe to really disclose that to anybody.
We just carry that.
Yeah, we carry that feeling of inadequacy as we're pushing through.
Something we don't know if we have what it takes for, and it's just the grit and determination of, I think I can figure this out.
7:21
I need to figure this out like that.
You know, that's a thing that's not sexy to talk about, but all of us feel.
Yeah, at some point, right?
Yeah, I almost feel like you did a really great job of summarizing the majority of 2021, from the perspective, of if it's been so interesting to have these opportunities to work, let's say, with our client base or, you know, was just some of the Ships in our sphere of influence and have a really positive impact being there wingman.
7:49
Almost like in fact that was a name that you and I kind of wrestled with a little bit.
Potentially for this show was the wingman, you know, the idea there is that is that we are reminding people, they're not alone and in conjunction with the you know, the programmatic ways that we support them and process procedure, all that stuff, it's really been this friendship of, hey, you're not alone.
8:08
Like like you have a, you have a friend that has your best interest in mind?
Then again, like as we're offering that right is part of our relationship value.
Then you and I are ultimately in this place as we grow these pieces of our business, where we're in the same shoes that our clients are where they're often, you know, getting ready to move the needle on growth or size, or market, share all these different things.
8:33
And so they're certainly being challenged and working in New areas that intimidate make them feel less capable, all those things.
And then the funny thing is almost all year, we paralleled them.
Um, in our own journey and you and I were consistently on these outer edges of our existing knowledge base, our existing experience, right?
8:53
Because we were, we're doing things differently no than we've spent the vast majority of our professional careers doing and so gosh man if ever there was a year where I really understood the position or the plight of our clients, it's Amanda sure was one for me like I just was like the whole time like gosh I totally get what you mean.
9:13
Yeah.
I know what you're talking about, like we see it.
There's a lot of pressure to pose and, you know, to come across a certain way.
And I think I talked about this a lot and maybe it's because I'm kind of a city kid that came in the Restoration History.
9:29
I'm kind of, I'm kind of this even when I first came in was working with you at the company that we helped build.
Like I didn't really, look the part.
I'm a townie like I did work construction in the boy, do I have some funny stories?
Or he's from when I worked in construction in high school.
9:45
Oh my gosh, the day that I will have one of my first days on a job site.
I had a spotting scope and I was there.
We were doing some excavation and I didn't know my ass from a hole in the ground, but I was learning how to give these readings from the spotting scope to the guy, he had the excavator whatever, and I had to take a leak.
10:03
And so I went into the house and I had this thing on my belt loop.
Well, I undid my butt look to take a leak and that spotted his brass spotting scope probably inherited from his grandfather.
Lift off my belt into the toilet.
As I was peeing that I didn't make a career out of construction.
10:20
Yeah, that.
But that guy really enjoyed the fact that he hired you.
Right.
I was inquiring high school anyway.
I so like I have been somewhat of an unconventional fit in the industry but where was I going with?
Uh I'm not a hundred percent sure I was following your journey I just I'm not sure.
10:38
What was that a humility curiosity thing or what?
What was that?
I don't know what kind of pose that was but and and there is 20 21 for you guys.
Like yeah that's that has felt and and brutal honesty.
10:55
Guys, there's been so much traction in so many areas that we just challenged you know where I was going with that man is I think people can relate to what I'm saying.
Maybe they're not this city kid with the, you know, whatever.
But as we've been working with clients, this is just been a recurring theme, right?
11:11
There's just a lot of pressure that I think L feel and within the construction sector, there's there's this other kind of pressure to there's a macho kind of drum beat to the industry to area of the this pressure to fake it.
11:29
Till you make it like, there's a pressure to appear competent and in control and to know what to do.
I think other Industries are a little bit ahead of us in terms of like Like self-awareness and vulnerability.
11:47
And some of these topics that are getting talked about a lot more like an Tek Tek is always seems to be a little ahead of the curve in terms of workplace culture and stuff like that.
And so I think our industry still kind of fights that that Macho gets shit done, always have to kind of be strong and have it together.
12:06
You know what I mean?
No, I do.
The interesting thing is and I don't know if folks have picked up on this this year.
Not You and I are different people.
We have core things about our friendship, our relationship is the leaders and his business partners that we trust.
12:22
Like, there's there.
These core pillars.
We're on the same page because we have trust in those.
We give each other the freedom to just be who we are in these other Arenas.
Right?
Yeah.
And there is part of me that that loved loves that Mochis might like like I am addicted to it in some ways because I have a military background and I was looking In the companies that we've worked with and for, like, we, I wanted to recreate that bravado, that machismo that elitism in the healthiest way possible.
12:54
Not not the kind that's super exclusive.
And, you know, put two people down, although I didn't always do all those kick ass and take names.
Dude, I love Ace, right, kick face, right?
Like, you know, face melt, you know, melt faces.
I really do love that.
And it's a component about our industry that I am somewhat addicted to.
13:13
However, in conjunction with that, I experienced you experienced both us as Leaders failing big time because we got swept up into that, and it allowed it to taint.
What the bigger Vision was or the why behind what we were trying to accomplish as leaders.
13:32
And then there was times where we really we balanced like being authentic.
Inside not environment like can you can you get?
Can you honor can you enjoy?
Can you Create the grit that's asked of us in an environment like that but still do it in such a way where people get to see real, like they get to be honest about there's times when you do it, well, and there's time to do it like crap.
13:58
And there's times where I've got all the energy in the world to do this.
And I've got times where I just am totally faking it because I don't have the energy or the bandwidth to do to do these things that were being asked to do well.
So it's like, yes, I agree with you.
I think our industry has that.
14:13
I'm Addicted to it but I also know and have seen and you and I have had many many conversations about that can become really freaking toxic as well, right?
If we don't do this weird balancing of yes, it is this, which is great because it fuels you sometimes, when you can't feel yourself.
14:31
Yeah.
So it kind of goes back to those three words.
I mentioned head, heart, and boot to write head heart and boots, right?
It's all of it.
And I think it's just one of things.
We've been talking a lot about this whole year.
I really, you know, been talking about it for a long time but it's the and yeah, yeah, it's the ends, right?
14:48
It's like I was drawn to that Esprit de corps that I think you really brought to the team, the the kick ass and take names, be the best like let's be the leading company in our market.
Like I am like I'm a competitive person like that.
I have a fiery Spirit like you in that there's always this internal yeah gear, that's cranking.
15:10
Yeah.
And I think you and I have seen and been a part of sadly.
The toxic residue of when it's all that.
Yeah, when like well like we're talking to Clint yesterday.
So, spoiler alert shortly after you hear this.
15:29
One of our next podcast of the new year is going to be with Clint Pulver, feel free to Google him in amazing, guests different angle than some of the guests we've had, but he's just got this pulse on.
Her and sort of a changing landscape of leadership and how it has to move from this command and control old school leadership framework to a mentorship model and I'm just so struck by what he said about mentorship.
16:00
He said a mentor can only play that role when a mentee has let them into their heart was like, whoa, yeah.
Like there's a touchy-feely thing for him but it feels true Ryan.
It's like you really can't lead without the permission of the people you're leading.
16:21
Yeah.
Like you can have a title of general manager, you can have the title of owner but you and and it goes to what we said before is like as a leader.
Sometimes you think you have your teams by in?
Yeah.
Like you think they're following you and they're really obeying.
Yeah.
When the really complying which are too, Wildly different scenarios.
16:42
Yeah.
And you and I've had the chance to see inside and behind some really, really cool companies.
Both during our career and we've been a part of some of them directly and then we've got to meet some leaders here that there's some there's some magic happening underneath the underneath the skin.
16:59
And that magic is, they've actually gotten permission.
Yeah, they are really leading people actually are bought in and we've seen just how different that feels.
Yeah.
And we've So seen the fact that they often aren't struggling quite as much as everybody else to get people.
17:16
It's true.
They're not.
Yeah, they're not turning people over shop and their employees are bringing like we were just having a conversation one of these leaders today.
They're like, yeah, we don't really have a labor problem.
Yeah.
In fact we just hired two more people friends of people that work in the business and like we were talking to Clint Clint Clint said, I just asked these employees have all these different companies.
17:40
Knees.
What's it like to work here?
Yeah and they told me the truth.
Our employees when they're friends asked.
What it's like to work there.
They tell them the truth.
If your employees aren't recruiting other employees in, it's probably something to think about.
17:56
Gosh, that's huge.
You're going into it.
I will, I know I'm going off, but these are just these are some of these realities.
So you and I've been wrestling with.
Okay.
What are we trying?
What is this podcast about?
It's like the leadership thing is something you and I are fascinated with, but I hate the word because the word is.
18:13
So John Maxwell, John Maxwell's.
Using, but it's I think where our culture is going and where I just feel like my brain is always going is you can have all the right external behaviors?
But as Leaders, if we haven't wrestled with ourselves and what's happening inside and how we're leading ourselves just doing certain behaviors or having certain disciplines externally.
18:40
That's not enough on its own.
Yeah, you know what I mean?
I do, I think the other thing that you wrestle with with that, I'm leadership is that it does feel like that word has been used in so many different ways for so long that it's I don't know.
18:57
That people are hearing that word and their ears are opening for something new or fresh.
It's almost like, you know, when you repeatedly hear the same marketing or sales routine, like as soon as it starts, your subconscious goes heard it and shuts down, I think in a lot of ways, any time we lead a conversation around.
19:16
Term leadership.
I think in a lot of ways, people have stopped listening to that word because they assume they know what's coming next.
Yeah, right.
And I think what's interesting about what Clint is focusing on which you'll hear a lot more about in that show is mentorship and how that mentorship is possibly the new word to replace.
19:35
What has been for?
So long leadership in quotation marks like we got really dialed in.
I think over the years of learning Nuance between management and Leadership.
And I think what we're seeing is this wave of the future of leaders being asked to be mentors.
19:51
This word mentorship is going to have a whole different context to it.
It is going to ask people to adapt new skills and new tools new resources.
Right?
To be this role and what we're seeing is the workforce coming.
Not only are the young leaders that are stepping into key positions, know how to do it or I should say are more drawn to it themselves like it's more natural for them as well.
20:13
But then this Workforce come It's like they want it.
They need it.
Yeah, and so for them they don't want to be led.
They want to be mentor and that's really adds, you know, again going back to playing the steam year in review.
20:29
I think what, what you and I experienced a lot this year.
I've got some Fear Factor that perks up.
When I say this is that we've had some relationships paralleling us.
That mentored us.
Yeah?
Right.
They were invited.
They did the things that would that we felt like, like we could trust them that we let them in the Inner Circle and we were very honest and transparent about certain aspects of our business or about us is our roles As Leaders blah blah blah and and they did Mentor us.
20:58
And so looking back on this year I think the thing that stands out to me man is this idea of I want to learn more about what that role looks like and what that title looks like to be a mentor in business in with the podcast.
21:15
In our Consulting in the things that we do, like, can we cross this threshold and develop more mentors?
So, I guess where I was going with that.
Like, look back this year, man.
And I go, wow, we were really fortunate with some of the friendships and relationships that we that we were able to experience and that we know will continue to experience.
21:39
But man, 2021 for me, I really felt like we met a whole different caliber of people.
People this year, mmm.
And even in our client relationships like you and I got have gotten so much out of those relationships to buy in conjunction with whatever value that we bring professionally.
22:00
They just I feel really honored and really what's the word like blast?
I don't know how else to say it, right.
I don't say that to isolate anyone or whatever but I just feel really blessed in this year.
Not an easy, no, but I feel so fortunate in so many ways relationally this year.
22:23
And it's probably why this whole concept of mentorship.
Yeah, means so much.
It's like we anyways, I'm kind of tanjung, going down a tangent now, but it was there's been a lot of that.
You know what, the other word is is and like it's kind of make fun of it sometimes.
22:41
But I will tell you, I think the word an and the understanding of and Versus a either or but in the way that we assess opportunity or core conflict or conversation or whatever.
Yeah, that to me was a real game changer this year.
22:58
It's been huge for me, it's a big theme, you know, I grew up kind of my faith background is Christianity and that and thing that yin and yang.
I talk about yin and yang.
Well, I'm not a Buddhist but I think as I've gotten older and I think business has cultivated this for me like they're black and white.
23:15
In is broken down for me as I've gotten older because there are so many things that we encounter in business relationships, with partners with employees.
Like, as Leaders.
We navigate situations that are just all these different shades of grey, like it's just like life is is so much of both.
23:36
And I think some helpful for me to just lean into that I like instead of the but or this or that or this is right or wrong.
It's like I'm looking at it soon.
Okay.
Maybe but yeah, where's the and anise?
23:52
Gosh I think a perfect example of this is and we're going to talk a lot more about this.
This coming year my guess is with some of the guests that will be having this is going to be a pressure point all year.
It's the accountability case / relationship.
24:08
Yeah, I think in the past what we've seen a lot of is you have leaders that either are really good at developing Or they're very good at accountability.
Yeah.
And what we're learning is, is that the Primo is and it's both meaning, you can't hang your hat on the thing.
24:29
That's easier for you or more natural.
You have to adapt to both.
And I think that that's why that word is so powerful.
And why you.
And I think of just really tried to use it to our advantage this year in terms of how we're developing individually is.
24:45
Is there is a lot of power and looking at a situation and saying it's an and yeah it's not either or you can't be all this or all that.
Or you can't only be strong in this.
We have to see the other component that has to be sandwich to it.
25:02
And don't you think that is kind of part of the yin and yang that you and I bring to our partnership because I think as default wiring your more wired towards the accountability and and standards.
Yeah.
I'm a little bit more wired on the relational connection side and I've watched you Shoring up the connection relationship side like dramatically moving towards that for me, I feel like my growing Edge and I felt it in Spades this year, as our Consulting practices filled up and flourished.
25:34
It's like there's been more and more opportunities for me to confront that.
Yeah, of like, really offering both to the people were working with because my tendency is, is is to build connection, connection connection connection and to pull back from standards and accountability in order to protect the relationship with the client.
25:56
Yeah.
And so that's why I look back over the year like that's been I can kind of spot that trend line of getting more and more comfortable leaning into standards accountability, honesty transparency would clients giving the hard feedback and really seeing that as part of the relationship, Yep.
26:16
It's like not only, we learning that, it's part of the relationship, but it's that balance.
It's actually the Difference Maker.
Yep.
And I think that that's what's so neat about about you and I think, I don't know how else to say it, but just kind of experiencing that this year and prioritizing that and our thought patterns is is that it's really a differentiator.
26:37
Yeah.
Like like those leaders are those those people that have downline Personnel.
If man, if you can develop this and and approach it goes from good to holy cow.
That's a difference-maker.
You know what's hard for me is and always has been the leader is the hang time.
26:55
What I mean by that is when there's a conversation that needs to happen or a piece of feedback that's very candid and is going to cut it's going to land because it's truth and it's for real right?
There's there's a behavior or a habit that you're seeing in somebody that's destructive or it's preventing them from really living out there.
27:16
Potential capacity.
Like my struggle is Ben.
There's a hang time.
Like when you communicate truth, a lot of times when it first lands with somebody, you know, they take a defensive posture, it puts them on their heels, they feel all the things, they feel because their ego.
27:32
And for me, the way I'm wired, I'm like, super high Merchant.
If you're familiar at the core values index, I'm super, super high Merchant.
And one of our kind of the dark side of that is that it's really destabilizing.
Or leaders, like me, when there's a break in the relationship, but most of the time, when we communicate truth, right after the dust settles and people can see what it is.
27:57
You communicated to them?
Well, the relationships restored but it's that hang time.
Yeah.
Well, you're putting something out there and there's maybe a temporary break in the relationship but they pull back because they're offended or they're hurt by the reality.
You should have let them for a lot of my career dad.
28:15
Was the ceiling on my leadership was too.
Afraid of that.
Relational disconnect.
Yeah and so I was holding back.
I was only really giving 80% to the relationship.
Yeah.
And I think a lot of leaders struggle with that.
Yeah.
You know we've seen that with.
I've seen that with some of my coaching clients, I think there's just different kinds of leaders that float to the top and and that's one of the struggles I've had but I feel like I made some progress this year so that, you know, feels good looking back on to even some of my Lee Klein engagements in the boq, one that I'm thinking of in my head and some conversations that I may be shied back from, you know, I've jumped into the deep end later in the year and its really produce fruit and seeing the positive, you have seen the positive from it.
29:02
So now it's almost inspiring to me, it's like, hey, when I share truth and I do it really clearly and directly rather than kind of dancing.
Yeah.
Around your kind of, kind of tiptoeing into a conversation because I'd I want to prepare And not offend.
I've seen the fruit of when I've built trust communicating very directly and clearly just how much more valuable that is.
29:27
Yeah, you know, to the people that I'm working with.
What do you think?
Like, from your perspective?
I'm and I'm genuinely curious here.
What do you look back on this year?
And go.
Okay, I intentionally set out to do that.
Hmm.
And and I just killed it like they like that was one.
29:42
I can really hang my hat on that.
I achieved what I wanted to do you.
Do you have one of those things from 2021?
Yeah.
Boy.
That's tough.
Because I'm so I'm so hard on myself, you know.
It's like, it's hard to say it like say, oh, I really believe it's hard to say it because I just I catch myself immediately, benchmarking myself against the people in my Orbit.
30:09
Yeah, you know, and so, can you go first?
Yeah, yeah.
It is so I'm with you.
I think you're right.
Like, it's hard to make this assessment because then you immediately want to compare yourself to somebody else and say, well, yeah, but it wasn't as good as them.
30:25
I would say this or even comparing it against what I think, maybe I'm capable of, like, I just, I'm so critical of.
I think I could have worked harder.
Yeah.
And I look back over the year.
Yeah, I think I could have pressed in when, in virtually every and we were talking about this yesterday.
30:43
Like I think I'm Capable of more.
Yeah, but not in an arrogant way at all.
But I look at my performance and I'm like, I think I could have given more and that area, I think I could have worked a little bit harder in some of the content I put together.
31:00
I think I could have been more diligent in writing and I think I could have been even more diligent in.
I could have created more material and tools for our clients.
I don't know man.
Okay, so here's mine and it was an accident.
Hmm, it was an accident, did it?
31:16
It wasn't part of the business plan.
It wasn't part of the, you know, the strategies for a successful first year, it was none of those things this year.
I accidentally got much better at being in a space that I was either peer or self, evaluate it without being offended, break the down from a guy who you mean.
31:36
So this case weird.
But okay, you and I have had the awesome opportunity to spend time with some really neat people.
Okay.
And there's a common theme with neat, people in quotation, marks normally folks that are going places and guys, I'm not talking about just money here.
31:53
I'm just talking about like whatever their vision is for themselves.
Personally, they're making Traction in that they're achieving the things they want to, regardless, if I agree or disagree with the value of whatever that looks like, I just want to get that out.
When I look at people that I respect from a myriad of different ways, a lot of it is about passion Drive, honesty about themselves honesty about the people that they spend time.
32:15
Right.
Their willingness to be evaluated to self-evaluate to challenge their peers.
All those things.
I really love all those things, but it's hard.
It's, if you're honest about it, it's fucking hard to be in that kind of circle.
Especially when you start doing it more consistently, that Circle begins to include some people that are moving at a pace that is just very hard to mimic.
32:40
I guess, I don't know.
And so part of that and a lot of it's on the back of your nice friendship and A ship this year just because it was challenging such different ways for the first time in and it just is I just have had more time to be around people that challenged me and cause me to take note of what I am doing and what I'm not doing.
33:00
And at the beginning of the year was very intimidating to the point was just almost could create paralysis and as the year has progressed and as we've both intentionally and unintentionally been surrounded and Being around more people like this.
33:18
I've just grown really accidentally more comfortable with some self assessment, and a push from appear.
Meaning that instead of me, looking at, like, what you were just talking about, like, instead of it being this thing, like I'm disappointed, it's full of guilt and shame.
33:35
I can just look at this last year and go, you know what?
I could have pressed in harder in certain areas of my year and it would have produced more fruit, but I'm not going to walking away.
From that assessment going man.
What a loser?
Yeah, what a bummer.
Yeah, you know what I mean?
33:51
Because I think that that's like that in and of itself for me personally, it feels a lot like a superpower, right?
You know what actually said it better than I did?
That is what's kind of going on inside me?
As I look back over the year is it's a positive discontent.
34:07
Yeah.
It's not full of I shoulda.
Or could has it's just I look back and I see all the things that we've been able to do in the ways we've been able to help clients and I and I also see.
Wow.
I think actually we could do a lot better.
34:25
Yeah.
Like I think there's more in here.
I think there's more in here.
Yeah.
And I don't know exactly what how that's going to show up.
I mean, for example, like I have loved doing this podcast, there's something very cathartic about having a platform for just like processing.
34:40
Thoughts.
And some of the things, I, they're really important to me and that's been great.
It's been helpful for me to get comfortable, putting stuff out there that later, I'm like, oh, I can't believe I said it that way because I've spent a lot of my career being so cautious about how I'm presenting myself and it part of that comes from this, my sales background.
35:02
Yeah, we coming into leadership, roles is that sales background as you just.
So you're so planned and strategic and sort of how your Engaging really not false but you're just like you're just really hyper aware of matching up with people speaking people's language, right?
35:20
We've learned that everybody has their different social Styles.
So like as a salesperson you get really good kind of matching up with people meeting them where they're at and kind of the toxic residue of getting really, really good at that though.
Is that your hyper aware of what people think of you and coming across the right way and stuff like that.
35:37
So it's been a really good exercise for me.
I think, even just in my client work of, having this podcast to just put thoughts out there and just let them stand on their own, not always be kind of polishing or repackaging or editing out the stuff that wasn't quite right.
35:54
But just that's been a good exercise for me to get comfortable, just putting these thoughts and ideas out there without trying to Mastermind, how it's going to be received.
Yeah, I can appreciate that.
You know what I mean?
You know, and I've seen that in you, for sure.
And and there's a couple things that stand out to me, cut as you say that.
36:10
Is I think it's because you've done a better job this year, of separating your identity from your thoughts and from perspectives, like, meaning that we can hold, you've learned this year at least, from my vantage point, to hold on to that stuff with looser hands.
36:28
Yeah.
So that when we put it out there it can be dissected a bit and it can not be agreed with per se all the time and it doesn't shatter you because you've created separation between your independent identity.
Tea.
And some of these things that were practicing.
Dude, life is practice, right?
36:45
I think the other thing that kind of stands out to me in that too.
And I'm not saying that you've experienced this, but I think there's a benefit to it is that I've witnessed.
You also giving yourself the freedom to change this year.
So when we say things, if we're afraid to put those out there because we're not sure that we've got the fully thought through flushed out perspective on that.
37:10
The reality of it is, we're in a constant state of change as individuals as Leaders.
We should be constantly growing constantly changing constantly getting a wider perspective, and more context on the environments that were operating in.
And if we do that, our perspectives are going to change, we're going to be negotiating those perspectives a bit as time goes on.
37:32
So for me, you doing more of that this year, I think is so powerful because all of us in leadership positions.
Ali have an opportunity to say, okay, in this particular point in time in the context that I've been exposed to, here's my perspective, but I'm very open to the fact that a year from now and I have more life under me, maybe it'll be a little bit different, right?
37:54
And that doesn't mean that everything from core values to principles as wishy-washy, that's not what we're saying.
But man, I yeah, I would say that's a pretty realistic evaluation of yourself.
And I've seen that as your business partner this year, and to me, it's made it really fun to do work with You because it's Spurs me to be willing to do that.
38:14
I mean shit, you this year in general, this whole podcast, everything we do in a lot of ways, just totally freaky.
Yeah, right.
Like is your yeah, I mean, you know, it's kind of a constant state of looking behind the scene.
So, anyways, I think I think you're right on there.
I think is powerful.
38:31
Alright, let's take a minute to recognize and thank our MIT Resto Mastery sponsor.
Accelerate restoration software, and I'm fully aware of all the way that when I say those last two words, restoration software that that instantly creates heartburn for some of you out there, right?
38:48
Because we probably all fall into one of two camps.
When it comes to stopper with either, cobbled together, kind of a version of free website, tools and spreadsheets just to make our business work or Or we're in the camp where we've adopted one of these existing restoration platforms, you know, one that has all the bells and whistles and supposedly does it all but we can't get our team to consistently adopt it and input information to it.
39:16
Yeah.
And that's really where accelerate has honed their focus.
They've created a system.
That's simple.
Right?
It's intuitive and it focuses on the most Mission critical information.
IE guys, your team will actually use Let's talk about sales, right after years, of leading sales and marketing teams.
39:35
The biggest trick is getting them to consistently update notes about their interactions with referral partners and clients.
And the essential piece there is, there's got to be a mobile app experience and in our experience this solutions that were previously out there were just too cumbersome and tricky to use.
39:54
Yeah imagine guys how your business would change if your entire team was actually.
Gently using the system.
Do yourself a favor.
Go check these guys out at Excel restoration, software.com.
/M RM and check out the special offers they're providing to mrm listeners.
40:14
All right, let's talk about actionable, insights owners GM's.
You can't be your business's expert on all things estimating.
You might have been three years ago when you're writing sheets in the field but the industry is always changing and so are the tools.
If you're the smartest person in Room, when it comes to exactement matter Port.
40:32
How does that scale your the bottleneck?
I know I'm preaching to the choir but this is where actionable insights comes in.
There are technical partner that can equip your team with the latest bleeding edge information and best practices, and then update them with webinars and training resources, when the game inevitably changes.
40:50
Again, for this reason, we recommend actual insights to all of our clients, yeah, three of the kind of big things that stuck out to me, when being introduced to a, i in their team.
Mmmmm first off, is this consistently updated training.
I mean, at the end of the day, these guys are the experts, they're out front all the time.
41:07
They're constantly learning new Trade, Secrets and ensuring that your team's got access to those things.
A 3700 plus page database of Xactimate templates.
I don't know what else to say here other than don't reinvent the wheel.
It's already available, download it, copy it, use it, bam, database of commonly missed items.
41:27
I think this is huge, so many of us can change.
Change the numbers by just moving the needle a couple points and those commonly missed items.
Can make all the difference in the world so go check them out at Value dot.
Get insights dot org, backslash FC G.
41:48
What about tomorrow, man?
What about next year like is there?
There's something Weighing on you that you're like, man, this is gonna, I'm gonna prioritize this next year.
I think I'm excited.
I it's funny.
I I-i'm, I'm in this kind of pensive, like reflective kind of mode at the moment here at year end.
42:06
We were talking about this on our coffee walk yesterday.
Like I feel like I'm being drawn, I'm 41 my oldest kid is 16 and I just feel like I'm experiencing this midlife, pull to really discover like, what is my capacity?
42:22
What am I capable of?
I feel like there's some areas of discipline that I want to really dig deep in and discover what am I capable?
Or doing if I really got serious about about that.
42:38
Yeah, I had a buddy died this last year and, you know, I actually wasn't this last year.
Just feels like yesterday, it was year before last, but I, he's been on my mind.
The different intervals is 50 and he died, really suddenly in a car accident.
42:53
And anyway, he was I had we weren't super close he'd moved out of town and so we were we were really, we were long-term.
You know how You have those friends that you had a lot of kind of face-to-face history and then they move out of town or they you know, whatever get a different job.
And so you're you're more pen pals.
Who we interact on Facebook.
43:10
We have phone calls periodically.
But we weren't super close, but he occupied a really meaningful time in my life where we were close and I just went out happened.
It's just really brought me to the present moment of none of us know how much time we have left.
43:26
Yeah, I think for me like one of the themes next year And it's not so much, it's our New Year's resolution.
It's like this is a theme that I'm feeling I've been feeling throughout 2021 and I just as I reflect over the year, like that's where my mind.
43:41
And my heart goes is how can I be more present and engaged with what's in front of me?
Yeah.
And I think some of us just the like the really day-to-day nitty-gritty.
Things of.
How am I taking care of myself?
43:57
Yeah, to be at my best.
Am I being I'm disciplined with my energy, like a my creativity.
How much do I Fritter away throughout the day?
Even when I'm here at the office, like how much of my creativity and my attention gets frittered away scrolling through my LinkedIn feed under the guise of staying connected and networking and all that kind of stuff, but where I'm really not bringing my full self to that.
44:25
Yeah.
And then, certainly, we talked about this a lot, right?
It's like we are all People were not just professionals.
We're not just business owners and entrepreneurs.
We're, we don't, we're here to make money and spend money, right?
Like, relationships.
Like, I think I have a 16 year old daughter.
44:42
I only have her in the house, maybe for a couple more years.
Yeah, and a lot of days I'm thinking I can't wait for those two years to pass.
I love you, honey, you're listening this.
I do I do.
And someday, you'll be a parent maybe and you'll understand right, but I think I waste a lot of brain space just trying, To get through versus really being present.
45:03
Yeah, and really appreciating the moments that I have, I can get really caught up in stupid shit.
Yeah.
And so it's that stuff and it sounds heavy but it's not.
It's actually like boy.
I look back at the year and I think oh my gosh we've been so lucky we've been so fortunate and yeah what could next to your be like yep?
45:23
Right if I'm more I'm more serious about my day and my just my day, Like a more intentional, a more disciplined with.
Okay, what am I putting in my body?
Am I taking care of my body?
How am I spending my time and my linger like last night I was at the office working on an article soon to come out on seeing our.
45:43
I'm writing an article but I procrastinated I put it off.
I waited I blew some time in between client appointments, whatever, checking LinkedIn when I could have been digging down.
And so I was at the office till 6:30 last night, you know, doing what I had to do, and I just think, To myself.
46:00
Well, what could next year?
Look like if I was more disciplined with how I expend my energy and what I apply my brain to from 6:00 in the morning till 6:00 at night and what could that mean for my relationships with my family?
46:16
How could that change the game?
Yeah, just by being more intentional, bring more present.
Yeah, I like the intentionality piece there.
I got a mirror that to a certain extent.
One of the things, I feel like that we learned this year, Here is how different the let's call it decision-making mechanisms were for let as an example, the clients that we took on this year.
46:40
Yeah, and how there was like this pretty wide spectrum between aggressive, proactive engagement of the business?
And that's why they wanted to work with someone versus a Quiet.
46:55
Desperation of like I am just so sick of being sick and tired.
I'm going to try this to see if it will help.
Yeah.
And from us as a service provider like both of those are amazing.
Like when we can meet someone that is quietly desperate and they just need help.
47:14
Like we love that opportunity to bring reprieve to remind someone how to be excited about their business.
Again, like I love that but I also wildly irresponsible.
Spect, those people that haven't gotten to that state because they're so aggressive about the proactive engagement, their business and their role.
47:31
And what they want to see happen.
And so for me, I've realized over the years, I think I've spent more time making decisions out of the quiet desperation.
Like you just reach that point like I can't ignore this anymore.
Yeah.
And because I've had this really third-party perspective of watching people in the throes of this decision, making Matrix, if you will, there's something that just stuck out to me to all Those business owners that engaged with us from this really healthy, proactive perspective.
48:00
And I'm just thinking in my mind, you know what, I want to hear more of that next year.
Yeah.
Like in it and it really does it speaks to what you're talking about too.
It's just, this getting really honest and aggressive about looking at my current situation looking, the current status of our business, looking at the current status of our service, offering, whatever and saying.
48:22
What do I want to do with that?
Yeah.
Right?
But I'm not a victim.
I'm not desperate.
I don't have no choice.
Yeah, I actually get to play a super proactive role in all those choices.
And how do I want to prioritize that?
What kind of business do I want to have versus?
48:38
What kind of business do I inevitably get?
And so for me, that is really, really going to be a big deal in 2022 personally because I think it affects everything, right?
Because I can look at my role as a dad with those eyes.
I can look at my role as a husband with those eyes.
48:54
To look at my role as a business partner as an advisor at whatever and I can say.
But what do I want to be doing with that role?
Yeah, and not being intimidated by that, but just looking at it and saying, okay, well then what kinds of things do I need to prioritize in that space in my life to bring or be what I want in that situation instead of just getting what I get?
49:16
Yeah, you know what kind of sits underneath that for me is I've been noticing I've been trying to be aware of it but trying to more quickly.
Is this I think sometimes I conflate relaxing or sort of like I don't really use the word self-care feels like something from a woman's blog to terrible but like like this notion is self-care.
49:37
I think men we don't that's a common idea and kind of theme that I think women are recognizing.
Yes you know because culturally whatever.
You know there's there's been sort of spoken or unspoken expectation that women.
Just take care of everybody else.
49:53
You don't take care of themselves.
That's right, and but I think the same thing can be true if men, right?
But how much I numb out different ways?
Yeah, but I call it something else.
Yeah, I catch myself numbing out and sometimes I'm numbing out on podcast.
50:10
Be honest.
Yeah, sure.
Like just podcast statement like any good thing, right?
Can become a bad thing, but I catch myself throwing on a podcast instead of just sitting in my thoughts.
Yeah.
So last night, I went on a took my dog for a walk.
Walk the dog thing.
50:26
Well, it's it's something else but I'm starting to have these moments from like I'm going to walk the dog and last night was actually the first time in the last few weeks where I realized what was going on there.
For me, is, I left the house as I have to walk the dog because she's losing her shit freaking out.
50:44
Like, she's just Wiley, and going off the rails.
Like spinning around in circles and jumping on everything, and I'm like, okay, jeez, gosh, but I left my phone.
On at the house, and I knew what she needed.
Like, we I needed to just walk her for like, 30 minutes, and after I got across the street, I realized, I left my phone in the house because normally I would just put my earbuds in and I throw on a podcast, just like basically numb out.
51:09
Yeah.
Under the guise of I'm listening to knowledge project or I'm listening to whatever, like some I'm learning, I'm expanding my whatever, but by self develop, professional development, bullshit, bullshit, bullshit, right.
I think that's what I'm realizing is.
51:24
Is I can bullshit myself really well doing things that on the surface are good.
But I'm not willing to sit quietly like we talked about with Rachel, this was a big moment for me and maybe it's why it's on my mind so much but Rachel brought up the on our Workshop we did of the Visionary.
51:43
We talked about deep work and that actually got assigned to me.
Like I was the one that I facilitated those slides and I started to think to myself how often do I create time as Leader as an adviser to other leaders, to just actually be quiet.
52:00
And the answer for me was not very often at all, if I'm honest.
Yeah, I talk about mindfulness.
Talk about it quite a lot.
Yeah.
What has taken the place of my mindfulness or meditation or quiet time, or just time to just process life, and thoughts, and whatever it is clients or business strategy, or whatever.
52:23
But being just a Alone and quiet in my thoughts.
I for whatever reason I've struggled with that.
Yeah.
And and so last night, I was thinking about that.
I found so much pleasure in walking around the neighborhood and just kind of decompressing, the felt really healthy.
52:40
Yeah.
And that the one area that I have really grown in this year.
So this was a success.
It's not overly business-related, but I feel like it's spilled over into our business is.
I spent a lot of times in the woods.
Yeah.
No, and lot by myself, you just getting out to the woods and either finding a Sit spot just sitting down and just literally sitting for 30 minutes, trying trying to just, you know, get quiet or walking out there with my kids.
53:10
It's interesting with my kids and I go out to the woods like the horse around.
You know.
It's 9:47 and like the screaming.
Yeah but it's just funny really quickly.
The woods have a calming effect on them too.
Yeah.
It's almost like we're all experiencing the same piece.
When we get out there.
53:25
Yeah.
So like will have these long periods of time where my boys aren't saying anything?
I'm not saying anything, like, even on this one spot on the path, this place.
We like to go.
There's this this clearing that opens up in.
There's a Ravine and it just looks out over this kind of Valley spot and I love to just stop and just stand there.
53:45
Yeah, and take it in sometimes, the fog is kind of rising off the valley floor, you know?
And it's like the trees are poking out of the fog and it's just this almost Like a, what's that fantasy serious, come on here.
The that three-part Movie Lord, the Lord of the Rings.
54:02
See everybody seemed like what a door?
He doesn't know Lord of the Rings.
It's almost like this Lord of the Rings kind of set and at one point one of these times I just stood there and I'm so overcome with a piece of it.
Like a my boys they caught up with me and they just stood next to me as I got, there's something here.
54:20
I don't spend enough time like this recharges my batteries.
Yeah.
No.
Yeah it's healthy.
That's one thing I want to do more next year as that spills over in every every other part of me you know do you want to chat a little bit before we kind of wrap this up and then I think we did a bit of a rearview mirror look and a little bit of tomorrow.
54:40
But what about our podcast, dude?
Like I know you and I have really been wrestling with this.
We've been wrestling with the show.
We've been thinking about the assessment of the show and terms of its performance, this last year, like how close to the goal that we Remain in terms of what we wanted to do.
54:58
And so I don't know.
Maybe take, let's take five or six minutes and maybe talk about that.
What we want to press into this coming year.
But equal to do that.
Yeah, don't do that.
I'm totally cool.
Here's kind of my perspective on where the start was.
We looked at the space and we looked at our podcast to do two things.
55:18
One is to be brave to challenge us to, to be more transparent and open about our own challenges as Leaders as Business Leaders, as business owners and just tell people, they're not alone.
Like, Hey, we're gonna be willing to cover some of these topics, sometimes, it'll be very tactical, sometimes it's strategic, sometimes it's just a brain dump and hopefully, there's value in that.
55:40
I feel like in many ways even though the road meandered a little bit, we certainly had moments where we were more confident than not in a lot of ways.
I feel like we remained on that path.
Yeah, there's no way.
I could say that every time it was superintendent.
No, but I think we just stayed there and we challenged ourselves to do a couple shows that will really unnerving.
56:00
It just personally, sure, maybe people are in a kind of like a.
So, anyways, I feel like to a certain perspective that would be my take on this year.
As we fell forward.
We learned a lot.
We got better in certain areas.
We certainly continue to make mistakes and others learned a lot.
56:16
Yeah, where are you at?
In terms of what you, how did you think 2021 went with the show?
Oh, I mean, I just It's been so fun.
One of the reasons why we did it too was to expand our connections and relationships in the industry time.
56:33
Yeah, you know, it's like boy, this is kind of a cool excuse to invite people that we admire we've Admire from afar, or we've just had a very sort of incidental relationship with to deepen.
Our relationship, with some of the people we've had on this guest and we still have a wish list of folks, that we've were admirers of their work.
56:53
And so that has been everything and more than I had hoped.
It would be.
I mean, I just look at the friends that are kind of around us now some from actually being on the podcast and some from people that heard the podcast and like reached out or said something and like it, we connected with people on a different level and we have before.
57:14
So I was great.
Yeah.
I feel what you said.
I think you and I just we wanted to bring something different.
Maybe not in a marketing sense of, hey, there's a hole in the market, although, I think we thought maybe there was like to just bring a different kind of conversation that wasn't totally focused on the nuts and bolts of the industry.
57:36
But really what's happening?
Our head and our heart as Leaders.
Like, what's real like, what are, what's the ego struggles that we have as business owners?
And, and Senior leaders?
What feels good about the work beyond the money?
Yeah, like, like the Legacy piece.
57:51
Yeah.
Like, building, something like this.
These are these are things that I think as Leaders we all relate to but we don't talk about as much.
We tend to get really tactical or talking with other business buddies.
They were calling them about the current opportunities are struggles or wins or losses were having and we we don't get into what do we what we feeling?
58:11
Yeah, and it's real.
Yeah, yeah.
So I think we did that.
I think has been a lot of that and I think for me I want to learn how to become more authentic.
You know, sometimes when we hit record I put on Of my my podcast Voice or I put on my sure.
58:27
Like, even I think you and I are getting more and more natural of just being able to almost talk to each other.
Like the audience is, we're certainly mindful.
I guess of trying to not trying to create value.
But I want to get better at just having the conversations that you and I normally have.
58:46
Yeah, you know, not feel like we're in a fishbowl.
Yeah.
Just, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
So that's one thing.
I think we've grown a lot in.
I mean, Those early days like I said we re-recorded stopped and stuff.
Let's start that over.
That was crappy running from.
Yeah.
We do a lot of that because we just think.
59:01
Oh, that was dumb way to say it for the reality is sometimes we say it Dom and then we'll say it better you know, later in the sentence or whatever.
But I just want to get more authentic in our conversations.
I also we talked about this.
I want to get better at creating and this is really a leadership Behavior.
59:19
I want to get better at creating a safe container for other people to feel comfortable.
Yeah.
Sharon at that level.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, because I look at the guess we've had thus far and the guests that we're we've already got kind of on the docket for next year and it's like I want to see them I want to and I think that's where our culture is headed.
59:39
Our culture is pushing that.
Yeah.
Like we're like my kids, it's really interesting.
So my best conversations with the kids or when they start they start to get candid with me.
Yeah about there.
What?
They see their observations.
59:56
I think social media is a big part of this.
There's been a ton of crap that's come from social media and all of us feel it, right?
We're all addicted to our phones at some level, all blah blah blah blah blah.
I think one of the Beautiful Things is created is the Millennials and on down have just highly tuned bullshit detectors.
Yeah they don't want to fake it.
1:00:12
Yeah.
They don't want to work for a business.
That makes them faked it.
Yep.
They don't want to be in relationships where they have to fake it.
The weird.
Action that we're still in though, is that the we fake it on social media platforms?
1:00:28
But it's created is hunger and desire to not fake it in real life if that makes sense.
Yeah, like we all feel the pressure because this is the social Dynamic, right?
I mean this the social dilemma, you know, if you watch that documentary.
Yeah.
But it's this Paradox of we all feel pressure to fake it.
1:00:45
But there's this growing drum beat and I in my conversations one-on-one, with business people.
It's there.
Yeah, like people.
Feel it like there and it's like I said, we get these texts from people when we did that, filling the whole episode about, you know, past wounding and how it affects our leadership and that kind of stuff.
1:01:02
And you and I just did an anger podcasts and I don't know how that's going to land with people but I just feel like there's a drumbeat of enough of the bullshit.
Yeah I want to talk about what's real?
Yep.
In amongst business people.
I think if I had to identify a single thing that I've been really successful in my career, it's not because I'm a Super Rad salesperson.
1:01:21
I've been a, I've been an okay to above average, Salesperson in my career.
But what's been the killer thing?
Or what has has really?
I think, propelled me, is over the years, I've gotten better and better at just being real in the way I approach people.
1:01:37
It just connects with people somehow and and I want more of that and I think other people want more of that up just like enough the bullshit.
Yeah.
And so that's I think the you and I both feel that way I was like shared value of.
Let's just talk about what's real.
What's now what's really A happening in this situation.
1:01:55
Yeah.
What's going on inside me?
That I feel so offended.
By that thing, that just happened.
What's going on me?
That I feel small.
I feel insignificant.
I feel inadequate when I'm talking to this person, what is that about like dealing with?
What's real?
I think for me.
That's a really life-giving.
1:02:12
Yeah, place to sit.
Yeah.
No.
I agree with you and I think what's cool is that you and I and our our preparation for next year and getting ready to just really do some, you know, we I've been in this kind of planning phase for a bit.
Now as we're going to double down on that like to the extent that that you and I are evaluating the name of the show and it's likely not likely, it will happen.
1:02:36
One of the First episodes that you'll experience and 2022 will be under the new banner.
And we're going to go into a bit of detail at length, explaining why we're changing the name.
But as part of this kind of wrap up or review, we're going to speak to our audience.
1:02:51
Meaning this industry.
But we just felt like the name that we developed out of the gate was to Tactical in nature.
It doesn't really do a great job of describing and we're identifying where we want to be and we want to continue to deliver next year on some strategy.
1:03:09
Some, some technical tactical stuff we want to do that but we are really going to prioritize and focus on the non compartmentalised elements of leadership and where it is that we are as business.
Is leaders business owners and really being committed to this idea that its head heart boots and a lot of ways, right?
1:03:30
Like there is multi dimensional elements to who we are, and we don't want to ignore one of those.
When we talk about our roles as key leaders as mentors, to folks, as to, you know, the heads of our companies and our teams.
So I think that's going to be really exciting.
1:03:46
I think it's going to be fun.
We're going to be reaching out of the industry.
Aggressively.
That's the pieces.
Like what is the name of your podcast?
He cares, but I think our audience is restoration.
We're not shifting gears.
Like that's the space.
We're really trying to serve and connect people and so forth and I think you and I are both really passionate about low.
1:04:05
We want to bring thought leaders in operators, people with new ideas from outside the industry in and expose them to the industry.
And Clint is going to be one of those.
One of those first few people and it's just awesome to get outside of the Four Walls of restoration.
1:04:22
And Disaster.
Mitigation all that kind of stuff.
And to start to pull some kind of different perspectives, different language, fresh, you know, perspectives out of other leaders and other operators.
So, whatever we change our name to, that's one of our goals is to just make it a little bit more when we've reached out to some, of these speakers.
1:04:42
Like, oh, yeah.
What's the podcast called?
I'll check it out and see what's called the MIT Resto Mastery podcast and people Outsiders.
They're like, what, what what does that mean?
Well, you always we call the mrm for sure.
Like its disaster restoration, you know what I mean?
So our audience is not going to change like you are who were speaking to, but we want to borrow a really focus on bringing new ideas and stuff in from the outside.
1:05:05
And so, whatever name we land on, it'll still hopefully really capture what we're trying to do but it'll open up.
I think an opportunity to talk more.
Yeah, easily to to folks that aren't inside our industry, to get them on the show and so forth.
1:05:20
Yeah.
So okay.
Well, I don't know.
That was sort of a rambley walk.
This is real, but it's real.
Yeah, I'd say this guy's.
If you've been walking along with us this year, I think Chris.
And I just want to say thank you.
Yeah.
Thank you.
1:05:36
We've had fun.
We've learned a lot.
We feel like, in many ways we're falling forward.
You guys have been honest and real in terms of your input and perspective on what we've been doing.
Stick with us.
Tell a friend hang out with us guys.
Next year is going to be a lot of fun, and it's going to More of us, just challenging ourselves and you to be more real with the realities if you will about our roles as leaders and Company owners and our responsibilities to those, folks, the human capital.
1:06:06
If you will that have been put in our charge and just remember, guys you're not alone.
That's that's why we created the show.
So hang out with us and keep sending us your DMs. This really encouraging.
You like something, you don't like something something provokes you some challenges you like that stuff's, really?
1:06:22
It's encouraging to brand.
And I just the people are engaging with anything we're saying, you know?
And so if something's helpful or it makes you think about something shoes, those DMS, you know how to find us on LinkedIn Facebook.
Some of you have our cell phone or cell phone, numbers are pretty easy to find.
She just attacks whatever have a good rest of the year and we'll see you in 2022 later.
1:06:46
All right everybody.
Hey thanks for joining us for another episode of the mrm podcast and if you got something out of it, share it with a friend hits.
Subscribe to follow leaves, five star review.
Thanks a lot.
Subscribe to follow leaves, five star review.
Thanks a lot.