0:07
Welcome Back To The Head heart and Boots podcast.
I'm Chris and I'm Brandon.
Join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses we leave this industry.
You know what, man?
I'm feeling really good, maybe we'll get into some of that or maybe it'll save it for a different show but it's been a really good week actually.
0:27
We could get into that a little bit.
I don't know.
We'll see.
Hey Mom, I don't want to bore people with our yeah shit.
But you know it's right I already He broke the cussing barrier there.
Well, right, out of the gates, I'm sure our sponsors will be really thrilled about that speaking of sponsors.
Let's, let's pretty good.
That was a pretty good hand off.
0:44
They knew we were salty before they signed up, you know, it's just like, it's in the contract, isn't it?
So yeah, that think so.
Yeah, okay, I'm taking lift fi.
Okay, love it.
Love you Michelle.
This happen.
Kim popped in my head, Zack and his team at left to Phi or really game changes in the industry we were talking with potential client actually just this last week and they were talking about how much Winning because he came from an adjacent Industry, Home Services industry and he understands the Google reviews game and it's a major driver for his business.
1:13
Several Million Dollar business, very successful with a lot of organic inbound leads and and you look at their reviews.
Sure enough, yeah, they understand the review game and I think that's what lift a Phi has to offered all the rest of us.
And, you know, it's all about recent, see consistency.
1:30
Getting those Google reviews every single week.
Week week in week out month in month out and let's just face it.
You and your team.
If you follow the industry standard the national averages across all the Home Services sectors, you're probably struggling to get five or ten percent conversion.
If you're doing a thousand jobs, may be around 100 reviews a year.
1:49
And honestly, some of you you've been in business, 56, 10, maybe even longer years and you're still sitting at 110, reviews or less not acceptable, it's affecting your business.
You're leaving money on the table, your competitors are getting leads that you Could be getting without paying for them by the way.
2:06
And you might even service them better, right?
You may have upstart Punk businesses in your Market that are getting organic leads to do business and they don't even have the same expertise service level or whatever that you have.
But they're getting the call because you haven't had a fresh Google review in the last 10 days and they're getting one every day after they close a job lift.
2:25
If I can solve that problem for you almost immediately they did for us shoot, we added a bunch to our own floodlight page and every client that we sent to them.
Has started routinely collecting reviews because they figured out a way to automate the process, but in a professional way that still converts.
2:43
And it's affordable 5%, it's crazy at the big number, dude.
It's a really big number.
So if you do a thousand jobs a year and many of you are at that scale, you should be adding 200 to 250 new, Google reviews, a year.
Have you been doing that?
If you haven't call lift, if I don't call him, that's weird.
3:01
You know, I'll go to their website, nobody calls anybody anymore.
Justify.com forward slash blood light.
We've got a deal, we worked out with them.
It's onboarding, special blah, blah, blah.
But that doesn't matter, don't do it because of the deal.
Do you need it for your business?
Yeah, I could be.
3:16
I seriously, I mean, for some of you, like, I just mentioned doing, this could net, you hundreds of thousands of dollars over the next year, if not more and more, if not more, right?
So there you go, dude, you're salty today.
I like it.
I know I'm like this, it's actually changing my whole perspective on this topic.
3:32
We might get into I'm thinking well, maybe It's sexier than I gave her credit for.
I'm peeling, the juice I'm liking it.
Okay.
See in our magazine gang?
You guys have seen this.
Oh it's okay.
Here's a real relative thing that relevant.
No.
Yeah, well it's all right.
I guess.
Look at the brains on this guy.
Yeah.
3:47
So we were talking to some people's pretty douchey.
We were allow me to correct your grammar.
Thanks, man.
Josh, do you want to check my spelling on as well on the transcript?
All right, so listen, see our magazine not that long ago we had this an interesting conversation.
4:03
We Go into detail and you guys know how this industry works.
It's like we hear hubbub right about what's going on and literally as we're having the conversation, we're kind of poking around.
Like I do.
I'm not sure if this is public information or if it's not blah, blah blah.
Boom.
See you in our magazine does an announcement on one of the most recent acquisitions.
4:23
Here's my point.
I'm not even going to say who it is.
My point is dude, they are in the mix.
See in our magazine is in the mix.
So when it comes to this, Idea of getting relevant information, getting current information, having some eyes out on the horizon people that are collecting guidance and services and systems and all sorts of information about our industry and looking out in front of us to help us anticipate incoming changes, they're doing it.
4:51
So anyway, I know you get us through the funny scenarios.
Whole are talking to a legit industry player connected to all the Shakers and whatnot.
And he started to like tiptoe around not saying And I'm like, oh, you're talking about sewing, so right.
He's like, uh, wait, how did you know that?
5:08
Is that I didn't think that announcement is have until I'm like, just literally saw it on, CNN are across my LinkedIn feed made you as you said that.
Yeah, I know I felt so important, you know, so there you go not to Michelle.
I mean, their team is just kicking butt and taking names just an absolute friend to the industry really high-end resource for us as restore.
5:27
So anyways guys see in our magazine go get signed up, there's no reason that you're not getting that on a regular basis.
Tons of a Sets that they share everything from print media podcast to digital resources.
So do yourself a favor and be a subscriber to to see an arm.
5:42
Yeah, foam on LinkedIn.
To if you're not, I mean I feel like the whole industry is probably following them on like in my now.
If you're not weird, right?
Go, we followed him on weirdo.
She's all right, my man.
Where are we going?
Listen, storms are coming and this isn't just relevant to the goal, the pan, how many?
5:58
Like, there's so much talk about our industry.
Why do you think so much PE money's coming in and industries?
Because Whatever you believe don't believe think have opinions about global warming blah blah blah.
Is that there's a legitimate uptick that the bankers are noticing and natural, disasters, storm, activity, storm, severity, all that kind of stuff, right?
6:16
It's a reality and it tends to happen in these next, you know, three to six months, you know.
So we're headed into that.
So, regardless of what Market you're in, I, we were just talking one of our clients in Idaho, blash Storm, 3 inches of rain in will like a three-hour period.
6:33
I adore something with less than 24 hours and generated an outrageous number of calls and their MIT log is now like 49 pages long, right?
So we're in that period of the year and it's why our business is so awesome because these kind of things happen, and people need help is so along those same lines because I think.
6:54
So, we're all in that headspace we're all preparing.
Hopefully, we're financially preparing for what that's going to mean for our business, depending on where we're at the country.
We're trying to prepare our teams and we're also I mean, yeah.
I mean, I just can't emphasize it enough.
I was talking to, we were talking to a client here, just this last hour.
7:09
That's located near the gulf there.
Participate in regular storm and catastrophe situations.
And I think one of the key behaviors that helps people succeed is free storm planning with commercial portfolios and clients finding a way to formalize that relationship put a ring on the finger right before the event happens and of course everybody's doing it.
7:34
There's an element of oh yeah we've done that that we encounter in those relationships.
I think there's an element of people like is very common in our industry to pencil whip.
Those kind of Erp plans.
Yeah.
Where we put out minimal effort, there's minimal intelligence gathering.
7:51
There's minimal shoulder-to-shoulder site walking time.
It's really just a Mickey Mouse contract or binder that sits on somebody's shelf.
I feel like I'm speaking the truth.
Pretty reliably here.
Even with those of you that are in these Hurricane Alley, we could all use some professionalizing.
8:12
Yeah.
When it comes to re repeat process with people, you think that's fair.
Yeah, I think one of the things that I've seen and heard you trying to address with people, consistently is yes.
It's like there's this and scenario where our erps msas, like, is there some element of it being a marketing function hundred percent?
8:33
Yes, Yes.
And however I think what we see people do is that's where they stop believing in the product.
Like, like we've adopted the idea that clearly there's a marketing mechanism to that tool.
Yeah.
But then it stops instead of there being an engagement around it and a more higher level of Competency around how to deploy that resourcefully and in a way that actually does add an immense amount of value to the client, we've hung our hat on it, it's a marketing mechanism and then we've stopped exploring how to deploy Correctly.
9:05
And I think you highlight that when you talk to teams, it's yes, we recognize that is there some tongue-in-cheek?
Is there some marketing mechanisms here 100%?
Like it's one of the few ways that we can build relationship and start establishing some kind of formal engagement without a first call, right?
9:23
But I also like I mean today was a perfect example actually that you had a really interesting call where we're teaching people how to educate the end user.
On its real value.
And so, anyways, I think that's where we've stumbled is that we're pencil whipping it because we've bought in the idea, it's only a marketing mechanism.
9:43
Instead of no, this is actually real critical element to customer experience, right?
So, even many franchises, and I'm actually not dogging on this because I think it's one of those.
Some companies have turned it into a kpi.
You need to do X number of, er, piece per month and I don't actually think that's a terrible idea.
10:03
But I think what we fail to do is inspect the quality of these and their actual function as a sales tool, because just putting, I mean, I think of this we had a private school that was in our Market when you guys were, when we were operating the field and a big private school, but campus lots of buildings, blah, blah blah.
10:22
I was in there talking to the facility manager and I see a large franchise common, you know, big-name franchise a binder on there, and I said, hey, what's that, you know, just curious questions, right?
You guys know the Program.
So what's that?
Oh yeah, we did that thing.
10:38
We did this thing I say, hey, can we take a look at it?
Pulled the binder, down started flipping through the pages.
First page, name, address, phone number, there's some info about the number of buildings.
I'm like boy that's not very useful to this client that knowing how many buildings they have on their campus.
10:55
Presumably a, you know, blah, blah blah.
It's like kind of filled out.
So here's a binder with like, 25 pages in a three-ring.
And then, of course, the binder is flanked by the pockets are flanked with sales, you know, tri-folds and things like that.
11:12
And I just start flipping through the pages and out of the 25 Pages, whatever?
There's maybe three pages that are filled out and I say, hey, when was the last time that the company came by to audit this with you and you know, update?
Because have you had any change in your maintenance staff?
You know, since you guys did this?
11:28
Oh, he's like yeah, it's incredibly hard for me to keep playing the staff and I said, okay, Okay.
And he said honestly this actually now that I think about it, this was here when I got here and we turn to the front page and it was actually a different facility manager named those in the front of it.
11:43
So it listen stuff like that happens and you know what you and I I'm sure.
Oh my gosh, right?
We've all done that.
We've all flaked out on our follow up with a particular account this or that?
Okay, unfortunately that was not the first time I had that exact same experience.
11:59
But here's the thing they had a catastrophic event.
Before I sat in the office that day, I said, well, hey, tell me about you know, so we looked through that, it was just nonsense, and, and it was a non-starter and I said, so have you guys had any damage events since you've been here and he'd been there, like, six seven years, he still actually last year, and of course, isn't that just terrible when you're your meet with a prospect?
12:22
You like, oh, if I just come in last summer, right?
They had a catastrophic water loss in.
This is really common, not just in private little Christian Schools, you know, with The funding and minimal staff.
This happens all the time ever.
12:38
What happened was he was on vacation classic story Murphy's Law facility manager was on vacation.
I think he was like in Mexico or something and didn't have an international call plan was really out of pocket and the custodian was there at night is how I think they caught this old building with overhead water pipes.
13:01
Their manes like those three inch pipes Something like that.
The broke perforated clamped.
I don't know what happened, but started spewing water custodian found it.
Custodians freaking out, doesn't know who to call.
13:17
I mean, let's think about it.
They didn't refer to the three rings.
Oh, well for all I know, right?
The facility office think was locked over the weekend.
Everybody went home or at night or whatever.
So the irony here, right?
Custodian probably can't even get into the facility office to grab a phone list.
13:32
So he's going through his His phone numbers somehow eventually is calling around.
It doesn't know what to do.
I mean, it's just like holy cow water spewing from the ceiling it.
However, many hundreds of gallons a minute, you know, and finally calls the principle principles phone goes to voicemail of this whole school eventually.
13:52
Because I think, most people, most even kustodiev, they don't know to call the Firebug.
Who do you call?
If you can't reach anybody on your staff, this is a reality, guys.
Here's a little tip for your next team meeting.
If you.
Properties.
And you're listening to this, right?
Who the heck do you call will finally, in desperation calls 911?
14:11
Yeah, it gets dispatched to the Fire Department, fire department.
Comes out Master, shut off in the parking lot in a rando place getting kind of in front of a bush.
Shaded they finally locate this?
Because even the fire department does all of their like schematics if they have schematics of these Master shut offs around the city, you know, it's they still have to hunt for it.
14:33
It.
And then the valve Turner tool is in the maintenance shop.
And so, they got to wait till one of the other Battalion rig shows up.
And they got this valve.
Toolkit was just is a comedy of errors, right?
Yeah.
All that to say this about all my gosh, right?
14:49
So you know, minute 15, nobody's there, minute 20s, trying to chase down the principal.
Oh my gosh voicemail calls 14 times.
Probably no answer voicemail finally dials 911 because holy crap. 30 minutes later how much water in a Mainline?
15:07
Has spewed into that building?
It was catastrophic and I was telling a story to our team just before this call our sales team that we work with and I'm like, guys, it still would have been a substantial loss.
Oh sure.
Could have been say a two hundred thousand dollar dry out and Recon kind of project and it was like, millions of dollars, utter destruction, you know, which of course would ever Restoration company handled.
15:29
It was probably very excited about, right?
But the point is whoever came in and did that.
The so-called Erp I guarantee you unless they got very lucky, there was not much of a chance.
They got that damage repair.
Yeah, and of course, that story underscores, the value of these erps.
15:47
We bring them.
And the components that are important.
Are you go?
Yeah.
Yeah, because it's not just a tool for it, is a great marketing tool.
Let's come back to that of how we use it as a proper sales tool.
But I would say, I almost, I think everyone kind of gets the connection there, the how to commit connect the dots but The actual viable customer value the peace that I feel like just get missed.
16:09
Now, part of that too.
Is the silos that exist between operations and sales teams almost companies to.
Yeah, I think that's also perpetuates this issue because we're not actually looking at that Erp as a unified front tool.
Its sales, people are deploying it for a sales purpose.
16:27
Yeah, versus it know our sales team, our relationship development team is deploying this.
Tool to gather information, to equip our operational staff to conduct the service at the highest level. 100 out of where the breakdown.
And I think the other break down to is we treat it like a sales process.
16:46
We don't lead it, like an Ops partner.
Yeah.
Because that's really what we are going to do these erps.
So I mean, it example of that, right?
With with the RPS and we God, we all skip this step, we just don't think about these things or and I didn't for a number of years.
When I first got in the industry, I just didn't took me a while to connect these dots right took me.
17:04
Things like that.
Hearing the Fallout of a really poorly not even really an Erp, right?
But I've learned over time, one of my favorite sales, coaches is Brian Burns.
Cap, talked about him before wrote the Maverick sales method.
He talks about committee selling and how don't expect even you're purchasing people.
17:20
We give them too much credit in a lot of ways.
Nobody teaches a purchasing agent how to buy really?
Yeah, they teach him how to evaluate bids.
They teach how to set like requirements, they teach them how to do like right rfps but they don't teach him how to buy effectively.
17:37
They don't teach them how to navigate a sales process with vendors and stuff like that.
That was really formative for me because I realized a lot of times I historically, if there's been times where I've rolled into a sales meeting almost subservient to, I got I'm in front of the VP of yada yada.
17:53
Assuming that they're going to tell me what they want to do and how they want the to play out and they never did.
Now, of course, some, some will, if you give them that space, But it's not necessarily to Our benefit.
Yeah.
May not they may not do it.
Well no, but they're going to fill the air.
You go, their egos going to for some of them, some of them, their ego will fill the Gap and tell us what to do and all this kind of stuff and that's a bad outcome also, right?
18:15
It's important we lead and this is true of any sales conversation but with those erps I think it's really important for us to map out a process for them while.
Not overwhelming them with it.
He look I'm going to lead.
This is going to require very little time effort energy from your team, but there are going to be some points of station here.
18:34
So I'm going to take the, I'm going to do the heavy lifting for your team.
I'm going to schedule with your team.
I'm going to be the one that pulls together all the information, but there's going to be a few intervals, where I have some questions.
I need to fill in some gaps, in order to have a plan that is really effective.
And then I will initiate will have an orientation meeting would be a single moment of time.
18:53
We get everybody on Zoom or we get everybody at your next facility, you know, your maintenance meeting whatever.
We're going to go through this because I don't want you guys to get caught in a scenario.
Like I described in all of you should have a scenario that's real that you can speak to with confidence.
19:10
Your company has probably navigated a very severe response like that, where there is very poor planning.
There was chaos on site, people didn't know what to do.
There's Confusion And It ultimately magnified or Amplified the damage and the scope of work and ultimately the cost to them, it affected their business continuity, all that kind of stuff.
19:31
So you need to have a real story and if your company Doesn't have one because you're too young.
There's plenty of people in the industry go on one of the forums and say anybody have a great sure damage recovery story.
Where there was poor planning blah blah blah.
Yeah.
Right.
And so we have to lead them through that process.
We have to really think about our language, okay?
19:49
So that's part is we have to lead the process.
The other thing too right now is like I said, we have a lot of teams in these storm prone areas.
Right now, that are hustling.
Hustling, they're doing erps by the dozens.
And one of the things that can hit, especially the newer sales reps, is kind of this, oh, shit, moment of like we have a client A storm prone area that got a huge multi family group, it's like 40 buildings and they're thinking holy shit, this is one Erp.
20:13
I there's how.
Yeah.
And so one of the conversations we have this is yesterday at one of our team sales meetings was okay.
How do we handle that?
Okay, because overwhelm doesn't benefit anybody?
All right, and we have an opportunity in front of us, we do need to formalize these relationships, but part of it was just a reality check.
20:31
Look, let's just think about it.
This way.
Fact, the Owner piped up and said this and it was very smart and comforting to the sales team.
He said, look guys, if an adjuster were responding to damage at a property like this after a hurricane with 40 properties, it would take them three or four days.
20:48
Yeah.
To walk through and assess that number of properties, maybe more.
Yeah, or multiple adjuster right.
You know.
So that's true.
Yeah.
It's not a 20-year, you're not going to see 40 buildings and have a plan in 24 hours.
And the reality is that right now, if you're in one of the storm prone areas, you may Not do a site walk.
21:05
You may not identify the shut offs and tag them and in every single billions properties.
But here's one way that you can lead your customer and establish the right Expectations.
First of all, this is a process, right?
Clearly, this is a physical process.
Let me outline what this is going to look like, right?
21:21
I'm going to create some sample language for you, for you, to send out to all of your on-site managers and to your maintenance department.
Okay, edit it.
However, you want.
I don't care.
I just want to make this easy on you, okay?
So it'll just kind of let them know what to expect.
Expect, what's the why behind why we're doing this in simple terms and then just outline the next couple steps, you're going to send that out to your team.
21:41
I'm going to follow up with each of them.
And I'm going to set up sidewalks, this is not going to happen immediately.
This is going to be a process over the next few months, right?
Better off to get some of your properties.
Totally dialed in then none, right.
So I stablish the value thereof.
21:57
Look, something is far better than nothing when we're facing a storm season, right?
So we just set that expectation.
Yeah, obviously.
You know, there's a reason why your team has never put this in place.
It takes a lot of time, and I'm going to do that for you, but it's going to take some time.
Yeah.
And then, the next question is, I say, during our last storm event, did you have certain properties that were more severely impacted than others?
22:19
Because this is just a reality, these storm prone areas, is that because of geography, because of other barriers other buildings in front of them that act as a Windbreak.
This is just a reality, some get more prone to damage than others have them.
Identify that now all of a sudden you've established your priority build houses?
22:37
Yeah, I think a layer to add to that is the function of that building.
The some structures for instance are, maybe they house finance or administrative operations.
Maybe you know certain buildings are the backup power, right?
That's the building that has the generator systems as part of it could be, maybe you've got it or technology infrastructure and so the indoor environment is more important like ask those questions of what's the operational.
23:03
Certifications of that particular building because in places where there's a multi-campus.
Yeah, some look, all the same, but normally one or two of those buildings, are something about it.
That's different.
Like, for instance, an HQ element, right?
You might have multiple buildings that house lease, you know, renters or users, but then the HQ IE, the command and control is in this small building over an XYZ location and we can easily forget that because that one's got two hundred doors.
23:30
Well, if they want to stay in control of their company, they need their support.
Systems to remain an operation and they may very well tell you that that's more of a focus Point than some of the others.
Anyway, hundred percent Think Like a Boss.
You don't need to have your MBA and understand executive business management.
All the steps just think like a boss.
23:45
Like, listen, if I, if I were running this Campus of Senior Living buildings and a hurricane hits, what am I thinking about?
What am I problems?
You guys are smart.
You can figure this stuff out.
You can at least get a line on what's important here, right?
Yeah.
Things to think about right, security.
24:01
Communication support safe.
Safety safety.
People medical support right?
Like what are those systems where those located because they are probably likely going to be buildings with elevators.
That's right.
Yeah, depending on your environment, air conditioning is a massive thing, following a storm, massive and of course, in some markets, more than others, right?
24:24
But in our Southern properties, right?
Bill temporary, AC temporary, climate control which buildings are going to need that versus others.
All the things, All right, head heart and boost listeners want to stop here just a moment.
And thank our underwriting sponsor floodlight Consulting Group as all of, you know.
24:44
Right.
You know, Brandon and I this is our passion project at hardboots his but it's also a way more and more that are Consulting clients find us and in effect they interview US, write those even listen to show for a while.
You get to know who we are, right what we're about.
So if head heart boots is valuable to you.
25:01
One of the best things you can do is share it with your friends.
And it's been incredible to watch just the audience grow and we still get text messages from many of you about shows that you really like, and impacted you.
So that's number one and please keep doing that.
Many of you have been huge, Advocates of the show.
25:17
We also just want to remind you to.
If you're a Restoration company owner, and you're interested in a partner in your growth, you want some help building out systems, developing your leadership teams helping set up the infrastructure for you to scale and grow into the company that you're trying to build that.
25:33
We do.
That's what we do.
Is we come alongside Restoration company leaders, we help equip them and we help support them in that growth trajectory.
So, if you're looking for that, go to floodlight gr p.com, potentially, we could be a great match for each other.
Another way that we really do, serve our client base in our sphere of influence is through our Premier Partners.
25:53
We work really hard to vet.
Those folks that we believe bring a level of value to the industry, that it can really be leveraged in a way to have a sincere positive impact on your business.
We take that Very seriously, the folks that we create those kind of ongoing Partnerships.
That's not a check, the box kind of scenario.
26:09
It's, it's we really see strategic alignment in the value that they bring.
We see value in the way that their leadership teams and their partners are developed.
And we've done very sincere work of ensuring that these folks that we introduced our clients and our sphere to can actually create vetted value.
26:25
So go check out floodlight grp.com forward, slash Premier / partners, and see if there's some folks on there that you can connect with and begin.
Helping some other resources to support your growth and your business.
One thing to remember here is that I think it's the term business continuity.
26:43
Is that term?
Like this here, what is an Erp designed to do to protect and attempt to fix or allow business continuity to remain in place?
Yet another thing to and this is the roll.
This is one of the roles of the Erp is to build.
27:01
Resiliency, is another term I've seen bounced around and and I like it, right?
It's like, how do we make your business operations?
More?
Giant in the face of these storm damage fall out, right?
And pre-planning is a huge part of that, right being strategic.
27:16
So as we lead them through the process, we can use them to help us establish priorities and set realistic expectations.
Okay, well that's excellent.
Okay, so these four buildings or the brunt of damage during Hurricane Ian is an example, right?
Awesome.
Listen my team and I here's my promise to you, we're going to prioritize getting those buildings done first.
27:37
And then, as soon as I'm finished, I'm going.
Reach out.
And we're going to set up an orientation call to make sure that we take good advantage of this information and the planning.
Everybody knows how to access it.
All the things we're going to go through that and make sure that everybody's on the same page.
And then you and I will establish priority in terms of what properties come next, boom.
27:55
Now, when I go to do those erps, there may still be a sense of overwhelm because those priorities may be like, holy shit.
Well, that's just one customer.
I have to fi promised.
I'm going to do these four buildings.
The thinking about what are the most critical elements that I Need to include, and I would say, and, and this is really a conversation for you to have with your senior leadership.
28:14
I mean, really, this is a combo that if you're in a storm prone area, particularly in the South, the gulf, the East, lower Eastern Seaboard Etc.
This is a conversation to bring up your next leadership meeting.
I think through this stuff, right?
But from my perspective and some of the experiences you and I've had is the single most important element of an Erp.
28:34
If you could do nothing else is to establish a very detailed and Phone tree of no less than 5 Co eyes inside that account.
This is a deliberate conversation.
This isn't just, you know, going back and forth on some emails but it's really helping them process through.
28:51
Okay?
If a storm hits in the middle of the night, that's kind of a worst-case scenario, right?
A weekend in the middle of the night, right.
Let's think through that scenario, under normal circumstances.
How do you guys typically handle?
Those sorts of situations him?
29:07
Who is the very first?
Person practically speaking.
I'm not talking about what's in the org chart.
Yeah, but if it's a multi-family location, a resident starts, ringing.
The phone.
Who are they calling?
Is it front desk?
Do phones forward, who do they forward to?
29:24
Let's start there, right?
You as the senior leader, do you want that call first?
Or does that go to your chief engineer?
Does it go to your maintenance manager?
Does it go to one of your maintenance technicians, where the call rotates amongst the tech teams?
If they don't answer, who do you want that call to go to?
29:42
Well, that's the phone tree that we need to establish and this is true.
It doesn't matter if you're talking to a hospital system, a network of clinics School, District, whatever and they'll run the Gambit in terms of Competency.
You might talk to one client, you think?
Oh my gosh, it's this medical center.
It's going to be so obvious.
They'll have it all dialed in and their attire fire.
29:59
And then you go to a smaller entity, and G's clearly somebody on the team is focused on safety and pre-planning and they've got that tree well established, but You're right.
Like, that's probably the most critical elements just who's responsible for what is half the battle.
30:15
I think.
Maybe a couple names to add to that are your core trades, right?
Then it's service that building.
So think indoor environmental, think Communications how're, you know, those subs that they have that existing relationship with because and I don't want to jump ahead here but something to consider then is once you get those names.
30:34
Hey, two things, one leverage that relationship because chances are they have more clients.
Like right and you can support each other, but then get those operations teams connected because ultimately they're going to partner together to support that client, right?
Like when it, when it's time to get into the trench, you want them to be a partner of yours.
30:52
As much as they are, that a partner that client, or that is next-level stuff.
Dude.
And that's one thing that almost no company puts in is ask.
Hey, listen, tell me about your existing preferred.
Vendor list.
Do you have that?
An Excel sheets format.
I will go ahead and go to the trouble of uploading that into our equation.
31:09
Rpe document so that every single person on your team has access to that.
And guys, like side note, you know, you've heard us talk about restoration Erp.com.
Honestly, I Jeff's a great guy, it's a great product.
There's a few other options out there, I don't really care.
But a cloud served Erp program, it's where it's at.
31:25
If you want to create real value for you and your team and your prospect or your client, right, that's the way to go because then that really is truly a value-add.
Well, let's I will update.
I will upload your vendor list to that cloud-based platform, so that In the hand of every single one of your technicians staff and Facilities team so that nobody's caught flat-footed.
31:46
That's right, right.
We may need to get, you know, the power company out to provide temporary power source or whatever.
So contacts, phone tree, which you're exactly right should include their preferred vendors.
And by the way, the sales opportunity there, I mean, come on now, right?
32:02
For us, how Pro is it for us to reach out at the conclusion of that?
And say, hey we just recently completed a merger Urgency response plan for XYZ Property Group portfolio, whatever.
And to say while I was uploading all their preferred vendor contacts.
I saw you guys on there and I realized you know I think you guys also service so and so do you have a sales executive that is kind of your Regional sales?
32:25
Exact I'd like to put them in touch with our sales.
We should be introducing each other to clients spot-on.
You know, so-and-so had great things to say about how you guys of service their account.
Now, all of a sudden we have the opportunity to get intro'd into other commercial accounts were not currently connected.
So, there's just a massive year-round opportunity for us to work those erps.
32:43
Well, and then those subs, really have interest self-serving interest to help provide some information and to potentially partner with you, on the whole lunch-and-learn, for lack of a better term or when you go to do the follow-up and really educate their team on how to properly deploy, it will guess what?
33:02
Now you can invite that electrician to come out and talk about their elements of it so you don't need to be the Jack of all.
AIDS, in terms of educating and partnered with that client either.
Let the Specialists come in and represent their Lane, and you stay in your lane right 100%.
Now here's another thing and, and I'm getting a little bit.
33:20
I guess some will think I'm getting a little creative little Nuance here, but I think there's value first thing photos.
I think front elevation photos are important.
The other thing for us to consider with these properties, is sometimes, like I have this one property.
I did an Erp for up in the Portland greater Portland Market.
There are a lot especially in these more urban areas.
33:37
There's a lot of flag.
Properties.
You know what I mean?
Where these dense like Urban markets and it's not just downtown's, but he sees huge metropolitan areas.
You have a lot of properties that are buried behind another property.
Yeah, they've got a driveway access and a lot of times they don't have Road signage so huge problem because if our teams are deploying out there for the first time, this is a first notice of loss during a storm event.
34:02
Holy cow.
First of all, there's trucks and vehicles and debris everywhere, it's like worst-case scenario for wayfinding.
And so identifying really good way finding that you can plug into that electronic Erp documents.
So when your team you're typically going to up to a place, the person is riding shotgun.
34:20
They're like hey look for and they've got some wayfinding indicator to know where that access driveway is or as part of the RFP process for the client.
May say, look, here's where we need all the vehicles parked for XYZ reasons, and it's a back way or something like that.
So, that's key.
34:36
Another thing in terms of photos, I think is really important is doing An overhead with an overlay meaning use Google Earth, right?
If you guys have drones, that's cool.
I mean that's rad right.
Take, you can get a much better shot.
Aerial shot of what you can even operate that out.
34:51
I'm tired.
Yeah, you can have somebody to come help you out pretty shoot.
If it's a high-end client, right?
Sure.
Right.
But anyway, that overhead shot would.
So valuable about that is when we get the call in and it's building, see if we've got a front elevation photo building, see if there's any distinguishing features among the buildings like the photos or even more.
35:09
Valuable because people can very quickly eyeball, where are we going?
Right.
But then having that overlay with the compass, since you know, marking on it, so we can identify and of course, to the wayfinding, we can see.
That's the back driveway, entrance, the front door and Building C.
35:24
Is it that way?
Like it makes it so much easier and looking.
We're talking about my previous example of a three inch water main Minutes.
Right, effect severity well and then enact these cat environments and many of you have experienced this firsthand, you may not be able to tell what the hell you're looking at.
35:42
Yeah, so depending of the structure damage, you know, the overhead might kind of aligned a plus b equals c.
Well, I'm missing a but I can identify were being.
See is now I know what a is, right?
So I think that overhead does help you give some context or simply if there's extensive damage and this stuff is so easy, to be honest, it takes time.
36:01
It's not, if this isn't rocket science.
Why will our methodology was?
We had iPads, you know, with our sales team and it was very easy.
They would pull up Google Earth, while they're on property.
Take that aerial shot.
Do a screenshot and then just do mark up with an apple pencil.
Yeah, easy peasy.
Yeah.
You know, create those markings those identifiers and then take that image and just upload it in.
36:20
The are P dot.
It's not hard.
It just takes some time and consistency.
All right, so that phone tree God man just can't emphasize this enough and I think there's an opportunity and That as well.
So think about all the current erps you have in this lead up to storm season.
36:37
There is no better time right now.
In addition to you secure a new are peas to be focusing on your existing RPS and saying, hey, we need to do a quick audit before storm season.
It allows you to get shoulder-to-shoulder with those people.
If they've built any new buildings, they've done any Renovations and he turn over any turnover.
36:55
It just anything and it's been a year.
It's been a year.
How warm is the relationship, right?
If you Advantage of getting back in there with a purpose.
With a value-added reason could save you from having a competitor role in leading up to storm time.
Because, as we're talking about it, they are to write no joke.
37:14
And, oh, by the way, if you're in one of these hurricanes, owns, it is 100% guarantee that Erp or not.
You're going to have three or four competitors.
Some, they're even more capable than you.
Let's be honest.
Yeah, right.
And they're headed there now, like, we know, right now of teams that are starting to Deploy.
37:31
Their kind of lead Echelon, salespeople.
They're coming to your territory right now to begin those relationships.
Now is the time to go back and they're leaking parking lot buddy.
That's right.
They're leasing parking lots, their staging trailers, like that stuff is happening.
Now it's May guys.
37:47
I mean, let's be real.
Like this is real stuff.
This is billions of dollars of work that's coming.
So in my opinion if you can do nothing else but you can get a site walk with the local on-site person.
You document you get All's you get good visuals for way finding and identifying these properties from the air and from the front elevation photos.
38:08
And we do a really good job of creating that phone tree including the key vendors.
Yeah, you have really done a great service to that client.
That's right.
You've done a powerful service to them, you've effectively put the ring on the finger and what I mean by that is like once somebody walks you around their property they give you time.
38:25
This is critical site, walk is critical.
You have consummated that relationship and important way.
All right, and then allows you permission because now when you come on it's like, hey is John, or is Sally or is Jose here?
I just want to check in.
I had a quick question, a follow-up from our site walk.
We did last week I want to clarify something or oh we never got around to the going to the fire.
38:44
Riser room.
I want to make sure I identify that on our our overhead visual, our overhead sitemap.
It gives you permission and access to that account to that team in a real value, added way forever.
Now, if you Steward it, well don't wait six months.
39:01
As for your first follow-up.
Now, this is the best application for Route marketing.
This is like what route marketing should be.
Guys is checking in on those erps.
On at minimum, a quarterly basis with a lot of these kind of accounts, right?
So, we could dive deeper, but I think people get the idea.
39:19
Yeah, you know, it's like every business a little bit different.
If we were talking about hospitals, different scenario, there's nuances to different business, operations, movie theaters, you know, hotels versus Restaurants.
Right, there's stuff.
But this is more of an orientation around that mindset like overcoming the whole, it's a marketing mechanism.
39:39
Let's just take a couple minutes to connect the dots with operations, if you don't mind.
So and guys, listen, if you're one of these sales team members and you've got a real sincere, focus on Commercial Business Development and you get it like, you understand the Playbook and how these things work, and hand-in-hand, then there's two things that are happening right now.
40:00
One is the Teams unified and you are working parallel of each other or and or there's these opportunities where there's a disconnect because these normal silos that exist in so many of our restoration businesses.
Well, this is an opportunity to do a little bit of leading up the chain of command.
40:15
So if your sales team is oriented on this already and they are beginning to have those proactive conversations, they're auditing existing erps and making sure they're current and ready to go.
Then what is the conversation?
Look like with our Ops teams and we have examples of folks on our client roster that are so good at proactive prep.
40:36
And one of them I'm thinking about specifically, he's like the definition in the dictionary.
If you were to look up pre-storm event prep, this guy's got it.
I mean, he's unbelievably proactive.
My point is though, is it that's not super common, even if we do storm work, we don't always have leadership in place.
40:55
It's doing a great job of partnering, with all the moving players and getting them really unified behind a common cause okay.
So, if you're one of those businesses listening right now, please take heed.
And if you're one of the sales teams that operate, some one of those kinds of companies, this is your chance to lead up the chain of command.
41:10
And here's what I mean by that whether it's you or whether it's the management staff of the sales team, right?
Depending on where you fall in the roster, this is that time to go sit down with the mitigation manager or production manager.
If you're a Servpro model, right, go sit down with your recon, department manager and start at least having some kind of Baseline conversation and prep like an Example would be if I go out and collect some really good response information, this is my opportunity to ask my operations team where does it make the most sense for you to access this?
41:41
And then what training is required with your staff to know that their muscle memory is?
My first step is to go here to read this information in route as part of my response priority.
So again, I know some of this sounds a little overwhelming if you're going from Zero to Hero but these are these principle things that at minimum we need to consider.
42:00
So again, Identifying, with your key leaders, where do we store this information?
And then what behaviors, what training do we need to put into place to make sure our team knows to default to go find this information here first as part of their response because I'll tell you what guys, one real great way to never do work for a commercial client again, is to spend all this time and energy doing a great job of establishing an Erp and then not connect the dots with your production staff.
42:26
And then the very first thing they do is show up on a job site and not know what the fuck they're doing or who they're talking to.
To you will never get a call again.
Okay.
So there's a danger to setting a standard of you're going to be a professional and that is you have to deliver.
Yeah, right.
So think about that with your op staff and in to a certain extent, this is non-negotiable.
42:44
But again, if there's a little bit of a breakdown in the chain of command, which is so common, it's not malicious intent, it happens.
Then go directly to your department, level leaders.
They're the ones that are going to be on the ground.
Anyways, with their teams when it's time to deploy the oh, by the way, like pointing back to normal stuff that we talked about, Consistently.
43:02
This is also one of the most important reasons why we ask department managers to be engaged in the onboarding of a new relationship.
In terms of the sales process is because this is where you get to meet that engineer.
That's going to be calling you anyways, right?
And so, you play a part in setting this course for how will respond in the near future.
43:21
So anyways, that's critical.
Here's another thing that I would just suggest is guys practice practice.
And again, it's so hard for us to be proactive.
This is one of the many me byproducts of things we don't get to because we're busy chasing the tyranny of the urgent.
I thought you were going to say chasing her ass well Jason our ass and her head but guys this is not opportunity before shit hits the fan like get your teams practicing, it's like you can do it in the shop in the back 40 and 15 minutes prior to load out that day.
43:50
Like guys, what happens when x y z Property Management calls us and not high-rise tower on 14th.
Has a 20th floor lat.
What do we do and what are the things I'm looking?
You for I really don't care about where the equipment comes or what trucks, we take because that's business as usual.
44:08
What I'm looking for in that 15 minutes is team.
Where do we go to identify the customers information?
Yeah, how do we leverage that information to navigate to the job site?
Yeah.
How do they show me their Erp pulls?
His phone out of his socket?
Go up and down?
Yeah, I it pulls them up, right toe?
44:24
Pull up the communication tree.
Okay, where do we start?
That's a walkthrough.
That's a practice.
We don't have to jump into A truck.
We don't have to use a stop watch and practice how fast we drive from point A to point B.
Yeah that'd be cool.
But that's not what we're talking about here, right?
Where's the information?
44:40
How do we deploy it to give a really great customer experience, right?
This is that stuff that we can start connecting the dots on.
Okay, so cool.
If this has been valuable for you, please share it.
It's the best way.
You know, it's funny.
We get a lot of feedback from listeners.
They'll end up sharing it with their team, you know.
44:56
Like oh you got to hear this?
I kind of stuff.
That's awesome.
Also sharing it on LinkedIn.
You know, we post these Things every Tuesday morning.
So please repost it.
I guess is the proper language if we're aligned, kind of in how we're thinking about the business, but you want a battle buddy, you want a partner to help you deploy an Implement, some of these kinds of mindset systems processes to really help you dial these operational, things in, with your teams reach out to us, you know, I'm thinking, I mean, Scott, this is the world, this is the air, he breathes, you know, is, is large loss and Cat working.
45:28
So, we've got some really great resources on the floodlights.
Team that we can partner you with.
So just go to fly like, gr p.com mess around, find the links, click on one-on-one Consulting.
That's one of the ways you can work with us.
So, thank you for listening and we'll be back for more.
All right, everybody, he thanks for joining us for another episode of head, heart and boots.
45:49
And if your joined the show feel of this episode, please hit follow only known as subscribe.
Write us a review or share this episode with a friend, share it on LinkedIn, share it, via text whatever. /.
It all helps.
Thanks for listening. /.
It all helps.
Thanks for listening.