0:00
Wow, How many of you have listened to the Head Heart and Boots podcast?
I can't tell you that reaction, how much that means to us.
Welcome back to the Head Heart and Boots podcast.
I'm Chris.
And I'm Brandon.
Join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the.
0:16
Businesses we lead this new.
Camera angle makes my arms look smaller than yours.
I'm noticing that and I really appreciate it.
I thought you did that on purpose, No?
I I don't.
I didn't And I I am not happy with it.
Hey all, thanks so much for listening to the show.
Hey, if you're not already following, please do so and ultimately share, right?
0:35
Like the coolest currency that we have in terms of supporting this is share it with a friend.
Share it with somebody, a colleague.
Appear one of your downline team members.
Let them be able to take advantage of the information you're already leveraging in your favor.
And finally, guys, if you hear a show that really moves you, that really moves the needle, will you please leave us a review?
0:54
Those five star reviews help us a time.
Right on.
And listen, if you're trying to grow your business, you might consider checking out floodlights business opportunity audit, it's free.
We provided at no charge.
It's actually what we use to assess new clients as they come in.
1:10
It's 110 point assessment for your business and we've now decided to give access to the general public for it.
So go and take our business opportunity audit at floodlightgrp.com.
It's going to help you identify the biggest gaps and opportunities in your business right now.
And at the end, it'll assign you a health score to let you know exactly where your business stands right now.
1:30
So go check it out, floodlightgrp.com/audit and take the BOA.
It's a great way to get a pulse on your business.
What's up, gang?
Hey, hey.
Leighton RA, 2024.
That's right.
Yeah.
I feel like sometimes when we make that announcement, I can't tell if we've started Super Bowl commercials or if we're just at actually at RAA, but uh.
1:50
Yep, Yep.
Leighton, you've been a busy man.
You've literally been all over, everywhere.
You know, like how many breakouts, how many meetings have you lost count?
Yeah, I have someone that tells me where to go.
It's helpful.
Right.
He just texts me and says you're late.
2:07
All day long.
And I said, what room am I supposed to be in?
And then someone just disinject me with something.
Then I Yeah.
But you know what?
Hey, I just tell my team, we worked really hard for these problems and these opportunities.
And so it's good, you know, and I hope that we're solving meaningful problems, right.
2:24
And at the end of the day, it's a lot of, it's a lot of hard work if the problem's not meaningful and I I think it's meaningful.
So you know, we have a compelling vision of the future that includes a workforce dynamic that's very different than it is today.
Yeah.
So make it's like the fuel when it hour 12.
2:41
Yeah.
That's the one that fires back in for another one.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly.
So another thing that we're doing that we announced yesterday with our partner at the RIA is a new study that I think is long overdue is the cost of doing business.
Yeah, in property restoration.
You know, I was chatting with the two big brands like big independents last night and they might have been a few wine glasses then, but they, you know, I don't know if they needed a confessional booth, but I was the confessional booth.
3:08
But then they they said, hey, like we don't make money and we know that all the chest beating and all the bravos and all that, like there's not a lot of people here making money or making when you consider the input and you consider the outputs.
It's not, it's not working.
Yeah.
And I think of Mark Frisco's words, I think it was yesterday where he said, hey, if we don't band together and make some changes, the economics of this model and I'm paraphrasing.
3:32
Yeah, just they won't work and this industry will collapse as we know it in 10 years.
Yeah.
And I think a part of that is that the restores need to be able to have a benchmark study, to be able to share in their own advocacy efforts, in their collective advocacy efforts, to be able to share.
3:47
No, no, no.
This is what it costs to run this business.
And so the cost of doing business with work is something that we think is very important.
So that registration opened yesterday.
Yeah, cost of restoration.com and then the ability to participate in the survey opens on Monday and then there'll be an intake period.
4:04
So we're hoping that accounting and finance leaders of independent and franchise brand restoration companies across North America will invest an hour.
Wait that survey, it's completely anonymous, very secure.
I think we're, we do a very good job of that.
And then the data that's ingested will be anonymized, but ultimately it will produce a report that we hope will be an annual cadence that allows companies.
4:27
We've scheduled the release just on the heels of the fall when a lot of companies go into budgetary season.
Yeah.
And so the idea would be that they can plan to receive that report and then to be able to prepare where they stick, they'll close their books that year against industry trends and hopefully it will improve the quality of decision making.
4:44
I love that.
I think part of what I feel like we struggle with a little bit is it's a big industry full of opinions and perceptions.
And I think some of the value that you guys and your team is broad is you're actually gathering data that in some cases affirms what many of us are thinking or experiencing at a gut level or in day-to-day business.
5:03
But I think also it creates a common understanding so that even our extended partners and stakeholders in the industry carrier side, right service partners, we can say the same things and agree to it because it's data backed.
And so I think there's some pretty massive opportunities for this from your perspective.
5:22
Like what would be I'm a restorer and you're saying, hey, please follow the link, which by the way in the show notes below we'll have the link for this to participate, but what is the value to them?
And I know that seem may seem like a silly question, but when we're running and gunning, we often don't connect the dots, right?
5:38
So why?
Why would should I participate in this thing that you guys are putting?
Out.
I mean, the number one thing is because you're in this to make money.
Like, yeah, this is a very expensive hobby.
Yeah, very stressful hobby.
And unfortunately a lot of people, at least if you ask their spouse, so like looks like a hobby because the economics aren't really adding up.
5:55
So I think #1 is because this is an industry, I think that does meaningful work.
I think this work has a very fulfilling, I think there's a lot of dignity in the work, and I think that this should be an industry that's very profitable.
And I think that if it's not, you suck the incentives out of a contractors world, especially when you hand the baton over to the next generation.
6:15
I mean, that's something you guys are very passionate about.
I'm very passionate about is thinking about the next generation restores.
And I think there's a lot of individuals that say, hey, you know, dad, hey mom, maybe this filled you up emotionally and it really fired you up and it got your adrenal gland pumping.
But I want to make money.
6:31
But I know what it's like to grow up in an industry that wasn't actually that profitable and I don't know if I want to continue.
So I think the continuation, I think the generational continuation of this industry is based on there has to be a strong economics case.
And for a lot of restoration companies, they live in a kind of an understandable vacuum where they probably have never seen the P&L of another company in their industry.
6:52
Yeah, for sure.
And so they really don't have, I would say, anything to compare their financials, even just say how are we doing.
And I think that when you air notes with other individuals in your industry, I think it allows you to be able to know when you're doing a good job.
7:07
Sometimes accounting teams don't know if they're doing a good job and sometimes it allows you to say, hey, you know what?
What we've become accustomed to is actually a really distressing number that it's not reflective of the industry and we should probably do something.
About it and I think too, you also just have the ego dynamics that all of us are subject to.
7:26
We want to come across as being successful.
We want to be seen as a competent person.
And so we even in these like little tabletop conversations like are happening all over right now, There's such a strong tendency to round off the corners of what our EBITDA is.
But especially we hear somebody who has a stronger EBITDA than us, we tend to fudge upwards.
7:45
We might be inclined to do that.
I think the the data that you guys are gonna be collecting and sharing with us can be really valuable because it's gonna be clean, it's gonna, it's gonna be stripped of the ego stories that we often bundle in those conversations when we gather events like this.
Can you parse out though a little bit like what's some of the data specifically that's gonna come out of this that you're anticipating that will be actionable and strategic Intel that companies can use?
8:10
There'll be 30 questions.
There'll be questions where we've decided really in this function, in this kind of this rhythm, it'll be very percentage driven.
So, you know, at the end of the day, a lot of I think what people are after is rather than just getting dollars and cents, well, you spent $5000 on respirators, like that's less interesting than you know what percentage of your spend was on, say, training and development, right.
8:33
You know what training and development spend did you put in.
And so a lot of it will reveal, I think, how the pie graph that is, how operational costs are stacked up across the industry.
I think that will be very illuminated.
I think as well there'll be a lot of clarity brought to topics like 10 and 10.
8:49
Topics like with topics like, you know, I think that people will have a lot more clarity.
Some of the other studies that we do with say our partners CNR that really gives us some illumination on themes, sentiment, friends, buying patterns, batting behaviors.
We're not really going into that.
9:05
We're really just amping out in the accounting and finance department and we're trying to essentially create an appropriate template of kind of what their P&L looks like and obviously anonymized.
But being able to then allow an accounting leader to sit across from their business leader, their OPS team and just be able to pull up their results and pull up the industry results.
9:27
And just be able to just correlate the two and say scorecard moment, right.
And you're doing, we're doing well here and we're lagging here and I don't understand how we're going to stay competitive on wages.
And obviously we're so materials heavy or I know that you're we're fired up about getting all the new stuff.
9:44
But how are we going to close the gap?
Like how are we going to compete with an industry that doesn't have this level of say, I don't know, it's like obviously our cast capital is out of control.
Yeah, so you guys get a rare behind the scenes view of companies, but most companies solo.
10:00
Effort.
Yeah, 100%.
And I think that that's Chris and I have said it a lot.
It's like sometimes the superpower ultimately is we just get to see what's actually happening.
And so we can talk to people more collectively on what's happening or not happening.
They're not alone.
You're not in a silo.
I think one of the interesting things I'm really curious to see is going to come out of this is the spend, like you had mentioned this one specifically on training.
10:22
And I just think there's this common conversation with a lot of influencers like I'm just thinking yesterday, like hearing the Aga talk specifically about some of the things they're doing to represent us as as contractors is we want to be seen more professionally because we do hard work in hard environments and unrealistic time frames, most of the time very complex.
10:43
It's very complex, yet we don't get recognized like journeyman plumbers and journeyman electricians as a professional trade.
And I think there's a lot of things that need to happen there for us, right, that are positive.
But I think this points back to, it will be interesting to hear data that we can be more honest around like how much are we investing in training.
11:06
And maybe part of that equation is, is like, well, in order for us to be more and more so recognized, there's a professional industry, we're gonna have to look at how we're equipping our people.
And is it really just on the job training, throw them in the cab and see what happens or is there intentional investment, right.
11:22
I think this will illuminate that for us potentially, and we'll be able to think about what that means.
And then I think another byproduct.
And please, Leighton, if I'm like going off the rail.
These are directly in line.
I'm glad that you got the speaker notes before I showed up, right?
No, no, no, right.
Good.
Yeah.
This is why we're doing this, yeah.
11:38
But just one more, just one more thought here is I wonder too if it what it'll allow us to do is when we start seeing where these spends are more visually more blown out and kind of stepping back and looking at it, will it also tell us like where some of these walls are in our business that we keep beating our head against it, We're not necessarily seeing a different result and maybe then it'll give us more, maybe something we can take more sites of action on, let's stop doing in this category because we clearly see it's not helping.
12:06
And then can we shove that or funnel that spend into a different area of the business that may give us a different?
Result, right.
So yeah, I'm confident that in 5-10 years, I mean we believe that a big part of know how's contribution to the industry will be to create.
We call it like a seat belt moment.
12:22
Like a seat belt moment, which is like, you know, we want in five years for participants in this industry is to look in the, in the whites, the eyes of the old guard and say that's how he used to do it.
That's crazy.
Like, how did you not like, that's crazy and say, like, you know, and I look at my parents, I say, you know, I'm harnessing my children into these apparatuses that apparently are gonna keep them safe on the car.
12:44
And and then my mom says, yeah, we just threw you in the past.
Yeah.
Out in the rear wheel, the.
Station wagon and you'd bounced around, you know, and but at the end of the day it's it's really interesting because you questioned the ethics of their decision making.
You wonder whether they were responsible, whether they were reckless.
13:00
How did a generation even and survive?
And obviously I'm here to prove that it worked, but I do believe that there'll be opportunities like that.
I mean, all you have to do is look at, I think another industry like, I don't know, take for example, Blockbuster.
I mean, but it's probably not a perfect example.
But when someone looked at the economics of distributing cassettes and DVDs and Blu Rays and all these things, that was a business model where everybody just lived with a fixed mindset.
13:25
Yes, that that model requires a physical brick and mortar distribution model.
And then you see the Hastings and his team come along and actually completely uproot that market.
And so I'm hopeful that there are things in this industry that people think are immovable load bearing walls and all of a sudden they get moved and you recognize that actually they weren't load bearing.
13:46
Yeah, right.
They were just, yeah, taking up space.
Yeah, yeah.
And that's.
A really great way to think about.
That honestly, Yeah.
Yeah, Awesome.
I mean you guys, you get deep down and personal with these companies you work with.
What would be the value in having a, let's call it a third party source of data that you can point to to try to help them to see the need to change?
14:08
Is that?
Oh, I think it's incredibly valuable.
Well, I think one of the data points I'm very interested in is cost of sales.
Right.
In sales motion, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, Yeah.
Because I think the industry is so oriented right now on the impact of TP.
As I think many companies that are embraced TP as are starting to think more critically about diversifying their income streams.
14:29
Sure, right.
We have a number of companies in our industry that live and die off of plumber relationships.
What happens is that market starts to get upset and so there's X percentage of sales that they're spending out to get those leads from plumbers versus say a direct salesperson, right.
14:44
And the salary costs and Commission cost of that.
I think sales is one of the bigger black boxes in our business because for so long it's just come in and we had the whole Agent Candy and Smiles approach for a while that was very static, getting higher, a fresh face to kind of college kid with some enthusiasm paying 40,000 bucks, fill the trunk of their rig with swag and items like that.
15:05
And it was a pretty static business model for a long time.
Hire somebody for 40K, give them 3% of whatever jobs they get in and it was very black and white and very easy to repeat.
And of course that market has changed a lot.
And so because of that, people have started shifting their attention to plumber relationships.
15:23
And of course, that is the wild, Wild West in terms of you got some people paying $200 flat commissions to plumbers and you got some that are paying 1500.
You've got some.
We were just talking to a customer that they pay 15% of whatever job a plumber sends to them.
And we heard that they're like, wow, yeah.
15:40
And I think there's an attitude amongst restores or they're not even an attitude.
I just think we don't have a very good grip on some of these expense ratios and what we should be targeting.
And so it's kind of like there's this opportunity mindset.
It's just like, yeah, I'll give up 10%.
Sure.
I'll do fifth.
Yeah.
15:56
You send me a really sweet job.
I'll give you 15% of that without necessarily having the experience to understand the kind of downstream effects.
Of Yeah, the tail.
Right.
And like, who was it?
Rod Rod Cruz.
Right.
He was talking about this idea of Monopoly money and how how effective it is sometimes to bring out a stack of Monopoly money and with a business owner divvy out.
16:16
OK, well, here's your cost of sales.
Here's the stack that's leftover.
Let's talk about your SG and A right and what, what falls under that?
Yeah, well, let's peel that off the top, right.
And getting people this visual representation of how much is left after you've taken all of the cost of operations out.
16:33
Yeah, right.
It's just I think our industry just is now kind of coming into a phase of professionalizing ourselves.
Yeah, to the point we understand how to work off percentages.
Yeah.
I think one of the things that a possible outcome too is if man, if we can establish, so like thinking about like housing markets, median and if we can go through the steps of teaching people, hey, there's averages, there's median prices, like where do you want to be?
16:58
What is it that you're looking to do?
And I think too when we get into these engagements with carriers and we're negotiating with adjusters and I'm not Pooh pooping on anybody.
But when we're in that instead of feeling this weird pressure coming from them telling them, well that's cost of doing business.
17:13
So that's in the line item.
All these things we're more aggressive, not in a bad way, but professionally saying no, it's not true.
Like I understand what my PNL looks like.
I know I'm not going on Bahama vacations every time we complete a job.
And no, it's not in the line item.
17:29
It is not in the cost the business or better.
Yeah, I heard someone say this yesterday.
You're right, it is a cost of doing business.
That's why I'm charging for it, right.
But I just think this is it makes us more confident when I'm not trying to give a rebuttal or support my decision making in asylum.
17:46
Yeah, I can say, hey, this is I'm saying this and this is something I'm confident in because restorers are saying this our industry is supporting this decision or this, right.
I think that's where the value comes that our industry until now is just we don't have that unification to support each other as much so.
18:05
I would say I see the same thing.
You know, there's a few things that come to mind and I wonder what you guys think about them.
So I'll just like I'll layout three things on the table and then you guys are great thought integrators.
So I wonder what you think about it.
So the first one is think that there is an interesting cocktail of people in this industry who are extremely resilient, meaning that they will go through walls.
18:25
They're super adrenalized, which is another way of saying they have the memory of goldfish.
You.
Know they're in fight or flight mode like your prefrontal Startax is shut down when you're in a heavily adrenalized fight or flight mode.
Yep.
So and then this is an industry that I don't think is opportunity restrained, meaning the work is coming in.
18:42
Yes.
So meaning that here's an industry where I'll go through walls, there'll always be another job.
And yes, we didn't make the margin on that last job but you know what, water in the bridge, let's get on to the next job.
And I think when you compound effect that over a 12 month annual just motion as a company, I think it's very, I think there are a lot of people in industry, they get to the end of the year and they look at their balance sheet.
19:04
Heck, they probably just look at their bank account.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like, I feel like I should have made money.
Yeah.
But that's kind of #1, #2.
Is a lot of private equity coming in?
Yeah.
And I wonder what's going to happen when this report lands on private equity.
Is it going to cool or is it going to accelerate?
19:19
Yeah, interesting.
And then I just came from a meeting and the discussion was a lot of heated discussion about how insurance carriers were not staying in a timely manner and then they shared with the carriers.
Did you know that this was a Canadian discussion?
19:35
Did you know that these provinces are regulated like it is the law of the land that you have to pay us within 30 days And to A1 every carrier's like, well, I didn't know that, but it's like well, so they changed all of their policies and now all these carriers are getting on board and they're changing And so just leveraging a lot.
19:51
I just wonder for an insurance carrier, when if they're that receptive to pivot like something as critical as when we pay you based on objective information, private equity and restorers who I think are almost wired to just keep calm and carry on.
20:07
I just wonder what the interplay of those dynamics will be of a report like this.
You know if we can stick the landing and produce a good resource.
Liftify.com.
Forward slash blood Lite.
You've heard Brandon and I talk a bunch of times about the importance of Google reviews.
Maybe even heard our episode with Zach Garrett, the CEO and founder.
20:27
Recency, consistency.
Two of the most important things when it comes to maximizing the benefit from your Google reviews.
Why not use an outside partner?
Lyftify is targeting 20 to 25% conversion, right?
So if you do 1000 jobs a year, you ought to be adding right now 200 to 250 reviews a year, every single year.
20:46
If you're not doing that, you owe it to yourself to get a free demo from lyftify.com.
See their system, see how it works, see how affordable it is.
I promise you you'll thank us.
Lyftify.com forward slash blood light.
You know, we spend a lot of money and a lot of attention trying to get that first call.
21:04
And one of the things that we do once it happens is sometimes we leave it to chance, right?
Who picks up the phone?
How do they respond?
How do they walk that client into a relationship with us?
Well, one of the benefits of partnering with a team like answerforce.com is we can systemize that.
We can make it more consistent.
21:21
We can also have backup for when our teams need that help, right?
Somebody goes on vacation, somebody's out sick, you know, we get a storm surge, we get cat event.
All sorts of things can have an impact on how we receive that client, but the most important thing is they need to know that they've chosen the right team.
21:37
And so answer force.com can support you, be a bolt on partner to help you consistently produce an awesome onboarding experience with that first call with your client.
So answer force.com/bloodlife.
That's great.
CNR magazine.
21:53
We're friends with all the folks at CNR, Michelle and her team, they do a great job of keeping their ear to the ground and reporting all the important information from our industry, right.
You want to stay up on all the M&A activity and what the latest best practices are for selling your company successfully, right?
She's got that great articles about all the four quadrants of our business, right?
22:13
CNR is constantly pushing out great material and leveraging great writers and subject matter experts in our industry.
It is the water cooler of our industry.
So if you're not subscribed, go to cnrmagazine.com.
Follow them on LinkedIn.
Follow Michelle on LinkedIn.
22:29
Trust us, if you're trying to stay on top of everything happened in the industry, your best destination is cnrmagazine.com.
You guys, many of you have already heard about Actionable Insights and the training and the technical expertise that they bring to the industry.
But how many of you are already leveraging the Actionable Insights profile for Xactimate?
22:50
That's the game changer.
It's essentially an AI tool that's walking alongside of you as you write your estimate, bringing things to your attention that should be added that could be considered all of them items that increase our profitability, increase the effectiveness and the consistency of that scope.
23:07
And it can do anything from helping a new team member assimilate as some estimating best practices and it also helps the grizzled vets add back that few percent that we've just forgot over time.
So actionable insights get insights.org/floodlight and take a look at what the actionable insights exactimate profile could be doing for you and your team.
23:30
I think they're the implications are huge.
I think that part of the value of like know how as an example is I think you've made this comment but trying to find a place that we can have a universal truth right like this is you use that term I think internally right like us as players if we use the know how platform we can create our own internal truth.
23:50
So it's not tribal knowledge, it's not communication can or brain farting whatever the hell that means message shifts right between bodies.
Well and and I point towards like actionable insights and what they've done as a team is this.
We're trying to create language that we can all agree to because it's mutually beneficial for all the stakeholders.
24:10
And I think there's potential that this data will do that.
I think it will illuminate on areas that maybe different parties have different assumptions based on their perception and the angle of the table they're sitting at.
And I think that again, this is a way for teams like yours to continue to create a unified language, a, a universal truth that then when we're negotiating or making decisions, it's like I don't have to create an argument for the why.
24:36
The why is understood and we can just talk about the data, the detail.
Is this something in the scope, yes or no?
Is this a decision we have to make, yes or no and try to remove some of the opinions and some of the emotion out of those negotiations or other elements.
So I think most certainly we'll see that boy, that PE thing would be interesting.
24:53
What?
Do you think?
Yeah.
You think it'll cool it or it'll accelerate it?
Well, I think there's where I was just talking with a client about this.
I think there's two kinds of PE firms.
There's ones that are seeing the opportunity from the outside and they're drawn to it.
They're drawn to the economy resistant nature of our industry, but they don't have a ton of domain expertise.
25:11
So they're coming in a little bit cowboy, right, trying to grab the opportunity, but they don't have an understanding of the market.
I think they will react differently perhaps to the data then the PE firms that are more heavily entrenched in the business, you know, that have been added maybe in this space for the last three to five years.
25:27
I think there's probably gonna be different reactions.
Yeah.
You know, based on different levels of bravado.
I think people that are in the business, they've had some sobering moments over the last few years.
Yeah, They understand some of the yin and Yang of the industry.
And I think these outside PE firms, they're still continuing to come in.
I think there's probably, you know, they're bringing a level of optimism.
25:45
Yeah.
That isn't yet balanced with the realities, but I just, I'm excited about this report because I think one of the themes we've been talking about is just the professionalization of the industry.
Yeah.
This is one of those things where us collectively knowing the data of our business.
26:01
Yeah.
On like the wisdom of the crowd.
Yep.
You know, there's a lot of best practices that for the last 25 years have been exchanged at conferences like this.
But we've been pretty light on the data.
I mean, frankly, I think it's objectively so until no help came around.
Sorry.
I mean, I mean some of the past research and data, you know you guys have provided I think that started to illuminate the numbers of the business in a way that we haven't had access to previously.
26:25
Yeah.
I mean, I think that's fair to say.
I think it's totally fair.
I think maybe one other kind of just brief concept here is for folks is I think it's empowering for the restorers because if I'm valuing my business evaluating that, I can't do that from a sense of I don't know what I don't know.
26:42
And so I might be thinking that my company's worth X.
And really, if I look at my financial data in context with all the others in the industry, I think it's empowers me then to think about my business and say, OK, well, someday I'm going to have an exit.
I want all my options on the table as part of that exit and I want to know what my company's worth.
27:02
Well, if I can look at this data and I can say, hey, if I tweak these things, it's going to put me in a position where my financials are middle of the pack, top of the pack, Yeah.
Well, that's going to have a direct impact on your multiple when it comes time to potentially exit or do something different versus just the rise and grind.
27:18
And so I think there's a kind of of that that we will see over time, you know.
Yeah.
When you think about, so to get to a place in due diligence where a capital provider or a private equity fund or a consolidating purchaser actually gets their hands on a company's P&L.
27:34
So, you know, the, the NDA is in place.
The LIO is in place.
The LOI story, I mean, there are some gates that a potential requires to go through, see the financials.
Yeah, Yeah, There's a lot of work that they've got to go through to see the financials.
Yeah.
And so I think it'd be interesting just for a restorer to be able to say very quickly like, hey, you, before you even look at my numbers, I'm middle of the pack or before you, before you look at my financials.
27:57
I can tell you right now on top of the pack or I beat the market.
Yes.
You know, and I just, I think it is hopefully just efficiencies, right.
Yeah, I agree.
I don't know if this is a fair example, but Can you imagine, like how different would Let's pick a popular sport, buddy.
What's your sport?
Football.
Soccer.
Soccer.
Oh yeah, but that's like football, right?
28:16
Yeah.
Like, yeah.
Well, apparently yes.
Original football, maybe?
Yeah, so soccer.
OK, so I would assume that soccer has a lot of the same data as, say football, hockey, baseball.
It's probably fantasy soccer.
I just think about how different the game would be if, like, nobody kept score during the game.
28:36
Like fans could not monitor the stats of the participants.
You never knew the ultimate result unless you had a way of tracking it, of how good an athlete was.
And you could never support a system like a fantasy sport.
Like, it just it would be, I think it would really just, it would kill so much sport.
28:54
Yeah.
And so I wonder if in a couple years after you do this report a couple times and we've compared with data, I just wonder what it will be like.
And we'll just say it was like we were playing this sport we call property restoration where like, no one turned on the scoreboard.
Yeah, you know what I mean?
It was, it was fun.
29:09
It was like, it was like like maybe we're living in like pickup restoration right now.
You know what I mean?
We're gonna move into the Professional Restoration League in the near future.
I just think we assume so much.
We see the people that are seem to be succeeding at scale and we make a lot of assumptions and that's one of one of the interesting experiences at Floodlight is as we get behind the curtain with a lot of companies, many times the actual financials match the external bravado of that team and the culture of the team and the results and performance and so forth.
29:40
And there are a lot of scenarios where many do you get behind the curtain and you start to breakdown, you know, a person's overhead costs and ultimately the EBITDA that they're taking home that they're keeping.
And it does not at all match the external picture that that business has put out there.
29:56
And of course, I think probably many companies have a phase at least a time where where the internals don't match the externals or as just part of the journey of business.
But, but yeah, I think we don't have great objective measures.
Yeah, like many other industry do in terms of really obvious benchmarks that all of us can be working off of, you know?
30:15
And Layton, you're always so humble about this.
Hey we can kind of use this to begin wrapping it up a little bit.
But Chris's statement about know how and this that's legit like like if we're honest about who the data presence is right now in our industry.
30:31
I am would have a real tough time arguing that there's anyone else doing it at the level that you guys are doing it.
And I think that's part of the affinity that's beginning to develop around you and the Know How team is.
You guys were forward facing heavily with value creation before There's a real ask in terms of does the Know How platform makes sense for you to adopt in your organization, right.
30:54
We're getting a lot of value from the Know How team that's global in nature from our industry.
I think it's very respected.
I know it's our attraction to working with and around your team is that it's like you're doing a ton to professionalize and help us get a lift as as restorers.
31:10
So I don't think people can miss that.
But for some reason if you've been a little bit under of rock and you're not paying attention to that, all the ebooks, these studies that you guys have presented all have provided very concrete value that can educate ourselves and help us be better restorers and make way better decisions.
31:28
I'm assuming this will do nothing less than that.
As we close up, though, I kind of went on a preach sesh there again, one more time, What is it?
What's the link?
Where are we going?
What are we doing?
And then again, we'll have that in the show notes as well.
Absolutely.
So today we are officially launching the cost of doing business survey with the Restoration Industry Association.
31:50
So the study will produce the cost of doing Business Report and it will be an annual cadence that is put on by RA and know how.
And it's a study that you can participate in by filling out a survey, having a financial or a county leader in your company fill out a study.
It's gonna take you about 60 minutes, completely confidential.
32:08
And you go to costofrestoration.com, cost of restoration.com, and it's going to take you through 30 questions that were heavily, heavily vetted, emphasis on the heavy.
There was some serious vetting, but we got there and the results will go through a period of analysis and then we'll produce what we hope to be a very detailed and a very well presented report that will be free.
32:30
Love it?
OK, you know.
Cost of restoration.com.
Cost of restoration.com.
Is there another for those people that maybe they missed the announcements previously, the other reports and and resources you guys, is there a place just apart from like your main website?
Is there a place we can send them to get some of the other industry reports that you guys have previously done?
32:49
I mean, definitely our website, there's a resources page that I think it's all the bounty that we bring to the market is there.
It's all free, but you can find most of our stuff on your favorite podcast or your streaming site and then most of our studies in our books.
If you need a physical copy, they're on Amazon, but I think these copies are great and so, but the website is kind of the mouth of the river and all those resources that we provide, there's no cost to them.
33:13
Awesome.
Love it.
And your main website is try know how.
Try knowhow.com.
Yeah, I know how to come.
And click on the resource button and you go right down there and studies podcast books.
It's all there.
OK, love it.
Try knowhow.com and cost of restoration dot com.
33:30
Contribute.
Let's do it all right.
Thanks man for hanging out with.
Us.
Yeah.
Thanks for having me.
All right, everybody.
Hey, thanks for joining us for another episode of Head Heart and Boots and.
If you're enjoying the show but you love this episode, please hit follow Formerly known as subscribe.
33:47
Write us a review, or share this episode with a friend.
Share it on LinkedIn.
Share it via text, Whatever.
It all helps.
Thanks for listening.