0:07
Welcome back to the Head, Heart and Boots podcast.
I'm Chris.
And I'm Brandon.
Join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses we leave.
Man love this industry.
What's up my bro?
I rode my bike to work today.
0:23
Oh man, you know what I just realized?
Then we'll get back to your bike.
You and I went through a stint there where everything was.
Br You H Yeah.
What drove that?
I think it was my boys.
Oh, is that a?
My boys are like, in fact my 15 year old.
It's all it's bruh, you.
Know what?
That totally makes sense because when we went to the beach, our families, yeah, a couple weeks ago or week ago or whatever even, Kara said.
0:46
Yeah, because we just.
She called you out on something.
She's like, yo, bro.
Instead of correcting the kids we just like.
Whatever.
All with it?
Yeah, like the very first.
Time.
My boy was like, bro.
Like, he kind of did it.
Like he was irritated by something I did.
He's like, bro, you don't give me that, you know, or something.
Like, he was just being kind of snappy and like, internally I'm like, dude, I'm not your bra.
1:06
Like, that's what I felt.
Yeah.
And I was just like, OK, whatever.
That's just my ego.
This year.
He wants to be bra, OK, I got, I got a bra.
So it's like all the time at our house, right?
You know, like that's just the stage of things.
I love it.
It's freaking crap.
All right, let's let's get into this, man.
1:22
Guys, before we get rolling into today's topic, we're going to be talking about this concept of keeping short accounts.
I'm going to let Marissa open it up.
Before we jump into that, though, I want to just kind of talk through a couple of our our premier sponsors, the folks that help us.
1:38
Feed the machine so that we can continue to do this Answer Force guys have probably last couple episodes.
You're like who is this answer Force team that is now popping up on the radar and we're really excited about that partnership.
They are actually they're kind of their regional offices here in the Pacific Northwest.
1:54
So that's always kind of fun, but essentially it's a call taking partner.
I'm sure they have a better way to say that, but in my mind this is how it works right is.
What happens?
Storm season, cat events, lunches after hours, calls, right?
Like there's just this rhythm of we have an opportunity to wow our customer when they first make contact with us.
2:14
A lot of times we try to control all of that in house and sometimes we do that really well and at times we get stressed, the system gets strained because of real world events and then we struggle.
To keep that experience consistent with Answer Force, they literally are going to customize it.
2:30
They're designed specifically to be working within our industry.
They understand how to partner with restoration companies.
They customize the call taking the questions.
They can even go as far as integrating in our Crm's.
There's some details behind that that answer for us is more equipped to talk about.
2:47
The point is these guys are a bolt on partner and it's pay as needed, pay as you use it.
It's there's not a more flexible option to create that consistency and one of the ways that I thought about this is if there are things that burn our team's commitment out like after hours calls.
3:05
Right.
Or whatever.
We just get inundated with flow, call flow begin our teams then begin losing some administratively productivity or administrative production.
Yeah, guys partner with these guys, use them as needed, flex to your needs.
And these guys can be a really powerful partner to help you take those calls in and really get that client started on the right foot.
3:27
Yeah, yeah.
That wasn't shorter, but it was really good.
I know, but it was really.
Good.
No, no, no.
You get excited to talk.
That's OK.
They're new.
So we're going to kind of unpack it for a little while. liftify.com, God, you know how much we love these guys.
You need Google reviews for your business, like, period.
3:43
It's not even a.
And Brandon and I have yet to see a team.
Actually, there's one team that was doing pretty rad at Google reviews, but here's the way to think about it of how good you're doing and whether you need Lift a Fire or not.
Let's say you do 1000 jobs a year, some of your like we do 3000.
4:00
OK, whatever, right?
You do 1000 jobs a year.
If you are doing it well, you should be adding 200 plus reviews Google reviews every year to your Google Business profile 100%.
If that's not what you're doing, then you should hire Liftify because they will help get you to that standard.
4:18
That's really fast and we've seen it over and over and over and over again.
They're targeting 20 to 25% conversion.
And you'll hear if you listen to Zach in previous podcasts that he's serious about that.
Like, if they're not seeing that in a particular account, they bring it up at a weekly meeting, kind of like our production meetings.
4:35
That's right.
And they're like, hey, what's the deal?
Conversion is not what we want to see it be.
And they troubleshoot.
It's really, really cool.
So Google reviews liftifyliftify.com for such floodlight.
There's some kind of deal there that sweetens the pot.
That's right.
And then finally.
CNRCNR magazine Michelle and her team, I mean, they're just, they have all the industry content, right?
4:54
They get all the scoops of all the most interesting latest stories.
I've mentioned this before, like I was somebody who just sort of glanced on.
I wasn't paying attention to the CNR platform.
And then once we met Michelle, I just got kind of turned on to who she was and what she was trying to do with the company.
5:10
And I started opening the CNR emails and I'm like, there's a lot of value that's free.
Right, So subscribe to the site, get the emails, actually open the emails, right.
Yeah, they are worthwhile.
Michelle doesn't waste your time.
5:26
Their content pros.
Anyway, that's committed.
That's all I have to say.
You just if you're not following CNR, you should be.
All right dude, so this keeping short accounts, I feel like that could go in 50 different.
Directions.
This is a I think it's a biblical concept.
Now, whether it's started there or it's mirrored and other religious texts or whatever, who knows?
5:43
But I think I learned this in Sunday school.
This kind of follows one of those principles of everything you need to own life you learn in kindergarten or whatever, you know.
Wow, I wished I would have paid more attention.
I know, I know.
Where am I going with that?
Well, this is something you and I have talked a lot about lately, and I think there's a lot of directions we can go with this.
6:00
Most recently, I've been thinking about this relative to my marriage.
You know, this came up on that podcast with.
I almost couldn't remember How to Pronounce podcast, That podcast we have with Zach from Lift to Fire, right?
Where he was talking about this weekly EOS Pulse meeting that he does with his wife.
6:17
Yeah, they're kind of similar to an L10 meeting you do with your team at work or whatever.
And it reminded me of my friend Mark Boyd.
I think I talked about this somewhere.
Maybe it was the Friday live.
There we go.
My friend Mark Boyd shout out, who told me about a CEO meeting that he did with his wife on Sundays.
6:36
And I had that conversation with him like five or six months ago maybe we we had lunch and told me about that.
Did I implement it?
No.
And yet, so when Zach brought that up, I'm like, I really need to implement that.
And then over the last several days, because Kara and I were going in different directions this weekend, so we couldn't implement on Sunday, I've just been mulling over, I think, the value of that relative to my marriage of.
6:56
There's something, and my wife and I have, I think, a pretty good relationship.
You know, when I hear about what other people's marriages are like, my ego really loves to think, you know, OK, I get a little bit more of a handle than that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like, we're very communicative.
Like this morning.
We get up most mornings together and we have coffee and we talk about real things.
7:14
And yet there are some minefields that over the course of 21 years of marriage that we we brought some landmines into the marriage and we've developed our own set of landmines.
And I think everybody can relate to that.
Like, there's just some areas of conversation in life that can be a little explosive, you know?
7:32
And what it looks like after 21 years of marriage is one of us will start to ask a question, and the other knows where that question is going and immediately has a reaction to it, even if we don't want to.
Yeah, Like we've developed a level of communication around all of these subjects where.
7:50
Like, we both want to be better.
We don't want to have the natural reactions we do, but we still do.
You know, we're kind of in that stage and hopefully somebody can relate to that where it's just like, man, we got these minefields, we're learning how to navigate them.
But where I see the value when it comes back to short accounts, I think there's something valuable about a green to a cadence of conversation about those things.
8:13
Rather than either person having to bring it up on kind of a complaint basis.
Oh, does that make sense?
What I'm hearing you say is establishing A framework, so maybe some of these harder conversations take place.
Yeah, so that they can be planned, we can plan to have a cadence of, and I'll just spell it out, I mean, sex, money, how we're parenting our kids, what's going on with the kids because I I don't think it has to all be like heart level stuff, but I think it creates a placeholder.
8:42
For these different categories and.
Well, I'd say to these principles apply to our businesses, oh, 100% to our teams like.
Well, we probably aren't going to talk about sex, typically.
You know that is fair.
We'll probably stay away from that particular item.
I was thinking more the not just that cadence, right, It's the cadence.
8:59
Yeah.
Don't talk about.
That's always bad.
HR.
Yeah, not HR appropriate, but.
But know that there is something actually really important there.
There's a really important distinction and value in just scheduling the plan to talk about that.
And and of course we have analogs in our business, right, leadership meetings.
9:17
That's one of the things that that's for yeah, is that we're hitting on these different areas of the business on a regular basis.
But I think this is a good reminder for us as leaders to think about that what if any, I think everybody has minds landmines in their business.
What are those landmines in our company right now?
9:35
You think about your leadership team, you're having that reflection time on Fridays or whatever whatever your cadence is.
What are those landmines in my business?
Are there landmines between?
My business partners, is there landmines on our leadership team, is there landmines I'm aware of within our down line leadership team, our our crew chiefs, Is there drama, Are there things that routinely come up, you know and it's like is there a way for us to get those out on the table or routinely and just create kind of a safe container where it's like guys we're going to talk about this every leadership meeting.
10:08
So let let me just make sure I'm following you connect the dots right is OK.
So we've got this underlining issue that shows up in our relationships at work, at home where we've got a sticking point something, some kind of conflict or friction and then because we're not addressing it.
10:25
In a timely, proactive manner.
It stacks up the gross.
So that the keeping short account references, if we can get in and deal with those quickly, yeah, it's a short account.
Yeah, like, OK, go just hang.
Right and keeps OK.
Going back to my marriage.
10:41
So the way it happens is somebody, my wife, either there's a behavior that she didn't do or a behavior she did do that somehow like it was frustrating, disappointing, you know, to me.
Sure.
And what it looks like feels like stacking up is I start to form a story in my head or I start to reference back to this always happens.
11:03
I said that language starts to develop of oh, here we are again.
Yep, right.
Or the story starts to grow.
I had this interaction with my wife and I know listen.
She has all these interactions with me too, right?
So we all stack our shit up, but like, so it starts there.
11:21
There was a behavior that I wanted.
I had a desire for her to do or not do, and it frustrated me, did something negative to me.
That story starts to grow in the back of my mind.
No matter how mature I want to be, I start building on that and then ultimately it starts to affect my body language, my attitude.
11:43
By everything else, in my interactions with her, it is the more it grows.
No matter how adult I want to be about it, Yeah, I start to have this internal dialogue of OK, is it worth it to bring it up?
Because I know it's been a minefield in the past?
Am I prepared to deal with the emotion that maybe comes from both of us to deal with this thing right now?
12:01
And often times, especially after you've been doing this for a while, it feels more prudent in our best judgment, to just let it lie.
The problem with letting it lie is that then the next time something happens, we stack that we let it lie on top of the last one that we let lie, and we start to form a pile.
12:22
This is actually this analogy is getting better.
We start to form a pile of bullshit because most of it, what we find is it's bullshit.
It there was a like where there's smoke, there's fire, of course, like there was an offense of some kind, a disappointment or an offense.
But it grew into a narrative about my wife.
12:41
Or it grew into a narrative before my wife about me.
Or it grew into a narrative about my daughter or my son or my other son or or my parents or my employee or our clients or whatever, right?
It's like there's some sort of thing that hooked me in a mental, emotional way, in a negative, stressful way.
13:02
And I made the judgment of, yeah, it's not a big deal now.
Now, here's the thing I've been mulling over, though.
I do think that there are some things that aren't worth bringing up.
Yes.
And I don't know that that ever becomes, like, 100% clear.
Like, I think we get that wrong, right?
Yeah.
Like, I think sometimes we're gonna bring up things with our spouse, with our leadership team, with our business partners, with whatever, where it's like.
13:23
I'm getting off something off my chest that maybe.
What's the real?
Didn't hold any value for the relationship.
Yeah.
So I think that's one kind of filter you can use Is and is there purely value in me getting this thing off my chest, or is there relational value in US dealing with this?
13:40
Is this affecting how I'm seeing this other person?
Because if it is, if I'm creating a story about this other person, their value to me, how much they care about me, how important my business is.
How important our team is.
Whatever.
If I'm starting to form some negative stories about this person, well, that's going to affect them, not just me.
13:59
Yeah, and I think the mistake I've made for so many years, bro, bro, bro is like.
I make the mistake that no one else can tell.
Oh yeah.
If I keep it to myself, that somehow, that's the professional thing.
Hey, I'm making a mountain out of a molehill.
14:16
I shouldn't be letting this bother me.
That's the genesis of a lot of my error in my leadership over the years is and my relationship with my wife is well, either one.
I already know how they're going to respond.
And so therefore I choose not to bring it up to, oh God, this is sinister.
14:32
I make the judgment.
They can't handle it.
Yeah.
Which the more I unpacked that man, the more devilish it is, you know?
And the more arrogant, the more arrogance I see in my past.
Yeah.
No, man.
Yeah, like, like when I really think about why I don't say certain things.
14:49
I don't share certain stories in my head is more about me than it is the other.
Like, I'm more concerned about how it's going to negatively affect me if I bring it up to that person.
They can't handle it.
They're immature.
They aren't going to be able to see it.
They're going to argue with me.
They're going to defend themselves or they're going to make me feel like shit, like it's my fault.
15:08
And so I don't even give them the opportunity, Yeah, to hear this from me.
Instead, I just, I stuff it and but I allow it.
But ultimately, what I've also learned is.
I allow it to negatively affect the way that I engage with that person, right?
Including my wife.
Yeah, and I sometimes I don't even know if allow is the right term because I think the reality.
15:26
Just does it's.
Just gonna happen, Yeah.
Like, there's just so much suppressing that we can do before it's going to expose itself.
I think it's similar to like things that we're talking about in terms of this theory of.
Our actions, our decision making, a lot of that is stemming from these previous past experiences.
15:44
You've made reference to that before.
We're going to talk about a little bit Mainstage at the Collective.
There's just this reality right where it rears its head.
It's going to influence how we act and behave.
Want may not necessarily actually be that much of A variable right in those kinds.
16:01
Of scenarios.
So, all right, so let's think about this.
I'm, I'm just kind of reiterating some of the things that you're saying is as I'm kind of processing it live here.
So, OK, So there's this mentality that inevitably we're going to have experiences with people downline, employees, peers, clients, relationships where there's conflict of some sort, a difference of opinion, a difference in communication style, the performance fact, the performance gap, how to name it.
16:26
Yeah.
So there's going to be this friction point.
And what most of us are going to do is stuff.
Tuck away, compartmentalize, and ultimately then by not doing that, not airing the laundry if you will, that pile of bullshit just continues to mount.
So instead of keeping a short account, we get these lengthy.
16:45
It's like aging AR There begins to be this bind, this conflict in the system between us and our counterparts that build up.
And up, over.
And it inevitably gets uglier.
Yeah, it takes on an uglier tone.
Yeah, every infraction.
It's like feeding that more of this.
17:02
Oh, this is what this person is all about.
Yeah.
We don't say it out loud, but that's how we start feeling towards that person.
Yeah, it's ultimately what, Yeah.
Jim Dethmer, he's so like we talked about Jim a lot and like we've referenced his work, we did a book club with them and and I think sometimes Jim is hard for people.
17:22
For a lot of leaders to absorb because he's so connected to feeling.
Yeah.
And he talks a lot about feeling that happens in our body when we're encountering stress or negative situations.
Like, yeah, the like the somatic, like the the body connection that we have with our emotions and our thinking and stuff like that.
17:41
And so for some people, it's just so weird because they haven't learned that.
It's not something that's very commonplace in our industry.
But man, I've noticed it.
It's like the more.
The more I read people like Dethmer and what not is that you can feel these things in your body when you pay attention.
When I'm feeling somebody did a certain certain thing, I'm feeling disappointed.
18:00
Like there's this kind of sinking feeling in my gut that I feel that I'm reacting from.
There's a physical feeling to it.
You know, Jim has talked about it and and other thought leaders have talked about it is that that's a warning.
So that's like an evolutionary thing.
Yeah.
This kind of statement, this behavior from somebody else that is negative in some and I'm feeling threatened by it and there's this almost body reaction that happens that clues you in there's danger here.
18:28
There's a risky thing happening like kind of gurd your loins protect yourself, you know sort of reaction that our body does.
And that just grows too, like your anxiety around that person, because you're instead of dealing with the situation at hand and moving through it, you end up building all of this shit up.
18:48
And none, of course, listen, none of us are consciously walking around the hallways and then sitting down our desk thinking about this stuff in the moment, right?
But I think that is part of the task is learning to notice this stuff.
For me, it has been anyway.
It's just a discipline of starting to think like this.
19:05
But whenever it comes to mind and when reminding myself right, this stuff's important because.
Again, the biggest lie that I feel like I believe for most of my career is that no one else sees it.
And I think everybody sees it all.
Yeah, like this stuff actually can't be hidden, yeah.
19:21
We think it is, but it's not.
But it's not like other people's awareness, right?
They've evolved to tune into.
Hey, Brandon's acting.
Something is different.
Something is off.
Now again.
Then they're gonna make a story about Brandon's pissed off.
Well, you may not be pissed it at me, but I start.
19:38
I notice something's off and I feel.
In the gap, Yeah.
Even from the very first moment, yeah.
Yeah.
No, it's true.
It's like when we talk about the fact that our people, our team members, teammates, see the holes in our system.
Oh yeah, I see it like they don't need to be educated from us, the only smart ones on the team about where the leaks are right in the business, they see it and they actually become more disgruntled as we ignore it.
20:04
This is kind of an interesting concept and I know sometimes like some of the things that we talk about.
They almost become so interwoven with one another that it's hard to differentiate.
So for me is I'm, I'm just continuing to kind of chew on what you're talking about here.
I think with the short account piece, there's a couple things at play here.
20:20
One is, is I have to get better at asking myself the question is, is this something to address or is it something to let go?
Yeah.
And so, you know, Jana and I as an example, kind of keeping with the home theme, we've had to do this with our kids.
Like, and this is not a knock on either one of them.
20:35
I love them, right.
And they almost probably have to do this with their partners and in relationship to us as mom and dad is.
We have to ask ourselves the question, like, hey Janet, is this something that we feel is important enough that you and I need to affect?
Like do we need to confront this?
Is there something for you and I to do here?
20:52
And if if her and I's answer to that is ultimately no, then it's our job to hold each other accountable to actually letting it go.
And I don't know that I have a prescriptive plan for how that unfolds, but it takes some conscious effort and thinking of Okay.
21:08
I'm kind of fired up about this, but I told myself this is not important enough for me to address.
All right, head, heart.
And Boots listeners want to stop here just a moment and thank our underwriting sponsor blood like Consulting Group.
As as all.
21:25
Of you know, right.
You know Brandon and I, this is our passion project Head Heart and Boots is, but it's also a way of more and more that our consulting clients find us and in effect they interview us right.
Those you've been listening to show for a while.
You get to know who we are, right?
What we're about.
So if Head Heart Boots is valuable to you, one of the best things you can do is share it with your friends.
21:45
And it's been incredible to watch just the audience grow.
And we still get text messages from many of you about shows that you really like and impacted you.
So that's number one and please keep doing that.
Many of you've been huge advocates of the show.
We also just want to remind you too, if you're a restoration company owner and you're interested in a partner in your growth, you want some help building out systems, developing your leadership teams, helping set up the infrastructure for you to scale and grow into the company that you're trying to build.
22:14
That's what we do.
That's what we do, is we come alongside restoration company leaders, we help equip them and we help support them in that growth trajectory.
So if you're looking for that, go to floodlightgrp.com.
Potentially we could be a great match for each other.
Another way that we really do serve our client base and our sphere of influence is through our premier partners.
22:34
We work really hard to vet those folks that we believe bring a level of value to the industry that it can really be leveraged in a way to have a sincere positive impact on your business.
We take that very seriously the the folks that we create those kind of ongoing partnerships, that's not a check the box kind of scenario.
22:51
It's.
It's we really see strategic alignment in the value that they bring.
We see value in the way that their leadership teams and their partners are developed.
And we've done very sincere work of ensuring that these folks that we introduce our clients and our sphere too can actually create vetted value.
23:06
So go check out Floodlight GR, p.com/premier/partners and see if there's some folks on there that you can connect with and begin developing some other resources to support your growth and your business.
Byron, Katie I've talked about her a little bit.
23:23
She wrote a book called Loving What Is And it's Earth Shattering at the right time.
Like so gotta be ready.
Ready for but it's incredible.
But one of the.
She talks about using inquiry to deal with our negative and stressful thoughts.
Oh yeah, and again fully aware of just how woo woo some of this stuff feels.
23:40
Some people listen because it was for us, you know it is and is in some cases right.
But she one of the questions that she suggests to interrogate those negative or stressful thoughts is can I think of a non stressful reason to let this thought go?
23:57
IE, can I think of a good reason to just let this thing go and just considering that for a moment?
Oftentimes I've found I can think of a whole list of reasons, yeah, it's either not totally true, or I have no way of verifying if this negative, stressful thought is true or it's just going to harm me, it's just going to make me more stressed out to keep thinking about it.
24:17
Or I have no way of connecting with this person to validate that thought.
Or, you know, you just start thinking, yeah, you know what?
I got spun out, you know, and yeah, you can kind of discharge you can that thought just by looking at it.
So I have a this kind of a heavy example.
24:32
Oh so here's an exam I've been chewing on.
Real.
Yeah, it's real.
OK.
It's just like a real one where I don't feel like I really, I not feel there was not really a way for me to correct this thing or address this thing with the person.
So those that have listened for an extended period of time, there's some episodes where you and I have referred to kind of some of our old school.
24:54
Like pain points, right?
You know, growing up or whatever.
And one for me is my relationship with my father.
It was a total dog shit, basically in a nutshell.
And I have at times been an extreme victim to those circumstances, and at times I've been more proactively leading my effort and my intentionality around that relationship.
25:12
But one of the things that just struck me was for an extended period of time.
So until I was in my. 30s, No, almost 4040 years old or something.
I had some kind of broken version of a relationship with a father figure, okay, somebody that held the title and donated their sperm to the cause.
25:30
And one of the things that happened towards the end of that is he was battling cancer.
And I'm a believer.
I feel like that in some spiritual terms I have a a responsibility out of grace that I've received and we don't have to unpack all of that, but I felt some level of.
25:47
Familial blood.
Responsibility to look outside of what previous experiences had created in terms of my commitment to him or what I owed him and quotes.
And my wife and I kind of reengineered her working career in my lifestyle so that we could partner with him during the last part of his battle of cancer.
26:07
And due to his own relational making, he didn't have anybody else there.
And so we did that and the reality of that scenario, and hopefully I'm not getting too crazy here, but the reality of that scenario for me is I was making a sacrifice to do that.
26:23
And I knew I was potentially exposing myself to a new layer of pain.
Because the reality of it is is over the years I had created scar tissue that protected me.
From kind of the emotional impact of this very broken relationship, or at least I had told myself that that's probably the truth, right?
26:41
So anyways, Long story short, I talked to my wife.
We have this very kind of proactive, heavy conversation about, hey, I think we should do this, She agrees.
Totally helps lead the situation.
Honestly, Okay.
So we commit to this.
We reshape things.
I start taking my dad to his appointments every week.
26:57
Sometimes it was 2 a week.
And I was fortunate that our employer at the time, that partnership, allowed me to do that as well.
So I did that.
And after, gosh, I don't know how long it had been a few months of this, I just got a wild ass text from him at like 10, thirty 11:00 o'clock at night and it basically was him chewing my ass.
27:15
For not doing enough.
Telling me that literally the kind of the quintessential message is, he wrapped it up with If I needed an Uber driver, I would have fucking paid for one.
So I don't know if I need to reboot the story to connect the dots.
But I think anybody listening here could say, well, that didn't go exactly as we planned.
27:34
So then there was a very heated confrontation.
I probably didn't respond as well as I could have.
And I basically just, I defaulted to, you know what, I fucking spent my entire life without you.
I did this for you, so fuck off.
And so I unplugged that connection and he ended up dying in the will.
27:52
So you get a copy of the Will if you're part of it, Yeah, I don't know what all the terminology is.
Long story short, I get this Will and there's basically a very detailed section in there that not only am I not getting anything.
But he's also stated multiple times in clarity that I am to have zero impact on any decision making as it relates to his estate.
28:12
So my final goodbye from my particular father's situation was a will that went out of its way to describe specifically how his son, me named Brandon Reese, is worthless to him and should not have, not should, but specifically says do not allow this individual to have any impact on my estate or decision making on my behalf.
28:33
So where am I going with that?
That is a legitimate pain point in my life.
Well, he dead.
So we're not going to have a conversation about about, hey, this thing really bothered me, right.
And so I have to do some very intentional work to let it go.
28:50
Now that's kind of a heavy example because they're it like I don't want to let it go in terms of it would be great if I could address that in the core level and do something to create relational restoration, but I can't.
And so I have to make a conscious effort to let it go.
That's not easy to do.
29:06
And it takes partnership and accountability.
And I think what we're talking about here is that on this short account pieces, this is not just you making a decision.
There's going to be smaller examples, right, Lots of them that we face day in and day out, but then there's going to be these bigger things.
29:23
And I guess my point is, is not to get kind of hyper focused on this kind of emotional context, but my point is this, when you evaluate this.
Either I'm going to sit down and address this in a very proactive way with this person, that person, or I'm going to let it go.
Then I think we need to be wise enough to understand that chemically, letting it go is not as simple as a decision and that you may have to do more to actually execute on this idea that I'm going to let that thing.
29:52
Go and maybe that looks like a business partner, your spouse or partner at home, a really close friend, certainly not a downline personnel at your company.
But I think it's going to be wise for you to find someone that you can bounce these things off of, because at times you may need someone on the outside to tell you, yeah, keep a short account on that, I E just let it fucking go.
30:15
That is not important enough to create or to give any more energy.
And if that's the case, then how do I do that Right?
What?
Kind of decision making do I do, what kind of checkins do I allow, What kind of accountability relationship do I build so that that person at times can say, like, yeah, dude, you made a commitment to let that go and it's come up four times in the last two months, right?
30:36
Yeah, I totally agree.
I think where I'm at is it's probably better for me to bring that thing up and be wrong than to default to.
I should let that go, you know?
That it's probably generally better for me to risk sharing the story in my head, even if after the fact.
30:55
I think that was such a little thing.
I wish I had ensured that, which that does happen from.
It does.
But it rarely has the negative outcome that I think it might.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
It's like, yeah.
And I think the more I do it, say, for example, with my wife, Kara Fee.
31:11
Routinely surprises me with how reasonable she is when I bring those things up and how much it actually does matter to her.
Some of the little things I bring up, I'm like, I don't know if I needed to give that air time.
But because I think we're just so inclined, I think as we start to give more consideration to keeping shorter accounts, we have to also consider that we've been taught in a whole variety of ways to stuff.
31:36
Yeah.
For sure.
Like we were just talking with Michelle and her podcast, Michelle Blevins, and we were talking about kind of what she called modern leadership.
And I think part of what we're having to figure out with leadership now is based on just how what we accepted about leadership or all we knew about it previously, which is more of a command and control like the owner has all the power, the general manager, the CEO, like that's a position of authority and therefore you do what they say to do because I.
32:05
Like, there's just a way that we functioned as society.
And I think part of that is, like, my grandfather didn't matter how he felt about something.
You just fucking go to work.
Yeah.
You do what you're told.
You have a negative experience.
You just stuff it and get back to work.
32:21
So I think a lot of us have grown up directly or indirectly, just absorbing that ethic of don't make a mountain out of a molehill.
Yeah, right.
Somebody 150 or 200 years ago made-up that analogy and now all of us take it to heart, And I think many of us, and it's only the drama people that do that.
32:41
And the reality is, is that we just have become a culture that we stuff a lot.
We act out of those offenses.
We just don't talk.
About Oh, you don't admit it.
And so that's what created in my in my experience, that's what actually creates the drama.
32:56
It's not the conversation about the thing.
It's all the body language bullshit.
It's all of the rolling eyes.
It's the I'm not making eye contact as much in the hallway.
I talked to that person as little as possible.
There's avoidance there's that's what.
Because then people inter why are well why are why is Brandon acting differently to me.
33:15
I think he's pissed at me.
And then I'm talking to a buddy is like, have you noticed you know Brandon?
And then there's drama and there's like, Oh yeah, Brandon did that to you know what I mean?
Like yeah, the drama is born out of we aren't talking about the shit.
Yeah.
And I think the opportunity, and this happens with my wife, Oh my God, you know, 21 years, the 1st 10 years of my marriage, man, were that it was unmet expectations that both of us had that somehow we just couldn't figure out a way to talk about, shouldn't be a big deal.
33:45
I should be making such an issue out of this.
And so neither one of us is really talking about it.
And then finally about 10 years, we're like, holy shit, I don't want to do this for the rest of my life.
I don't want to feel this way for the rest of something has to give and and that's where we started to delve into these conversations.
But I have found that when I have the courage because I think that's actually what it is, you know?
34:05
I think especially in our industry, there's just so much bravado.
It's so much of A get shit done hero, kind of.
You know, environment that we don't like to think about it this way, but it takes courage to have to keep short accounts.
Yeah, you know.
Well, I think one of the things that you're almost saying there, at least where my head goes, is when we think about the relationship to that saying don't make a mountain out of a molehill.
34:29
I think what we've done with that is I don't disagree with the concept.
I think what we've done is landed the plane on the wrong tarmac in terms of how do you prevent a mountain from being created out of a molehill.
And I think what the past has told us is ignoring stuff, you know, and I think the reality of it is, is the way that you prevent that issue from becoming massive is you address.
34:52
It you move through it.
You move, go to it, talk about it, unpack it, put that shit on the table and dissect what just happened.
And if it's nothing, great.
Now everybody knows we're all Privy to it and we can keep that account short.
But if we just do the stuffing ignoring method, there's a real chance that you and I have made a decision that the other person doesn't agree.
35:12
With.
Yeah, right.
Like from your nice perspective, we look at it and we say, yeah, it's not valued enough.
I don't need to address that.
And then I act as if then I'll be able to compartmentalize it, not do anything with it.
But what if that issue actually was pretty darn important to the other person.
This is Rando and I don't want to spin us out at all.
35:27
But I have a creative as a wife and.
You're more of a creative too and I see this come to play with you is and interesting enough it's same for me, it's like some of the biggest fears for creative is to be misunderstood, which is really interesting, right?
And they're just better at articulating it.
35:44
Because I think the reality of it is, I think we all kind of feel that way to a certain extent, right?
But so the interesting thing in relationships with the folks that really don't want to be misunderstood component is something actually from their perspective may still be very important and be a big deal that needs to be addressed.
36:02
And I've looked at it and said that's not that big of a deal, but if it's a reflection of someone else being misunderstood.
An exchange conversation or whatever.
Like if I'm walking away with the wrong impression or the wrong understanding, yeah, that's a big deal for that person, right?
36:17
And so I wonder how many things actually get put into the bucket of this isn't important enough to just quickly address?
Every day, right?
Every hour?
Yeah.
The piles of that stuff that's stacked up all across our industry and in our homes?
Yeah, it's worth considering.
36:34
It really is.
Here's another way it's shown up in my career as a leader.
We have talked about this, we've referenced this, but it comes back to short.
Keeping short accounts is how many times have we fired an employee?
When we're in, it just finally boils over and we've been developing A narrative that we may or may not have communicated in our head about their lack of care, lack of attention, lack of follow through, whatever the negative stressful story is, they aren't following the process.
37:03
They aren't doing enough.
There's not enough volume of activity, whatever the infraction was, rather than routinely bringing that to account, right.
Talking, having a conversation, communicating our expectation, talking through a strategy of, hey, I'm just curious, why is this going on?
37:21
What's happened for you?
What's your take on this?
Right.
And and engaging with them, trying to get through the stories.
Yeah.
Is it at the end when we finally just get so pissed off, we're like, we're done.
This person no longer is bringing a value commensurate with what we're paying them.
And.
And and yeah, this has to do they have to go, Yeah, we're fed up.
37:39
We're fed up.
And we come to that table and there's some amount of shock or betrayal that that person feels because they didn't understand the magnitude of those infractions because we just sucked them.
I don't have time for this.
I don't have time to do.
It's.
I'll give them some more time.
37:55
There's all the things that we tell ourselves.
God, I can tell.
I can feel it in my bones right now.
Those I can see, those people in my head.
I can see their faces when I let them go, This look of disgust and shock and betrayal of like, really, I think they were like, what the fuck is wrong with you?
38:14
You know, I've been doing my best.
They're put on their heels.
Yeah, because I've been making long accounts.
And I thought it was lost on everybody.
But in the ends, right?
It was just unfair.
It's just unfair.
And again, that goes to I was talking earlier, just that realization.
38:30
There's some arrogance in there.
They can't handle the truth that, if I'm honest, is part of my thinking, you know?
And now I'm aware of it.
I'm starting to like, I'm starting to tune in and be like, why am I so hesitant to have a conversation with this person about this thing?
A lot of times it comes back to I'm afraid of their response.
38:48
And if I go even deeper beyond the arrogance, it's this boy inside that I don't want them to not like me.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, I think, you know, it's interesting.
I think that case, I think that's a coat a lot of people can put on, right to include myself.
I think the other place that this comes into play, this whole short accounts thing and you know what, you've I think in a lot of ways you've mirrored this.
39:08
For me there's at times I'm not going to lie about it kind of irritates the living fuck out of me, but then there's a lot of times where it's really helped me grow.
Where you want to keep some short accounts.
So when we have an exchange or something happens, you circle the wagon, sometimes a little slower than others and you ask us about it and and we work through it and vice versa.
39:25
But you know, it's interesting because we work with a lot of clients across the States where there's a couple that owns at minimum a partnership, but often we see husband, wife combos, some kind of partnership that you know with lots and you know, it's interesting.
39:41
I think one of the benefits of keeping short accounts is associated with.
Getting and experiencing more of what you can't, OK, different from what you want.
Ah, you're dealing more in reality.
Experiencing more of what you can versus what?
39:57
Want.
Right.
And here's kind of where I'm going with that.
So we've seen scenarios where we have partners, husband and wife, let's say the one partner has a pretty clear vision of where they'd like to take the business, but the other partner hasn't quite got on the same horse.
40:14
Oh, there's a little bit of a disconnect of all's it's gonna take is X and the business will be fine.
And one of the other partners maybe has a firmer grasp on what really is needed in order to make the business.
Fine.
And quotes or I mean here's a reasonable example you and I is perspective on our company.
40:32
On our business though?
My vision of what it can be.
At times looks differently than you.
Not to the point where we're playing two different games, but just by default without the conversation.
Mine might look one way and yours looks another.
Yeah, well, if you and I keep short accounts, that means not ignoring and stuffing.
40:52
It means us jumping in and having this dialogue in problem solving and talking about.
This is a great, actually that's a really great point because, and I think what it does is I have and you do too.
I have an almost visceral, unexplainable reaction to certain topics, things that means something to me.
41:12
So when I hear you say those things, I react and I have a very vivid sight picture in my mind of what you mean.
Yep.
And how many times does this happen with you and I where I'm like, I get hooked on maybe a certain way you say it, or a word you use to describe what you're thinking.
41:28
Yep.
And then once we do wrestle with it.
Most of the time, you and I are in total alignment.
And it might be a different color, a window trim.
Yep.
But it's the same fucking building.
Yeah, yeah, that's right.
But it's that I can get hooked initially.
Like, whoa, dude, I don't want that.
41:44
Yeah, because of a way you said it or a term you use that I've got some negative association with.
And then when we dig in.
Yeah, we clear the table closer than we thought, right?
Often way, way close, yeah.
You know, just, you know, kind of going back to that want thing.
Like I think one of the things that we walked away from with our.
42:02
Conversation with Zach a few episodes ago is he was really talking about transparency with the way he's leading at home and you know for all of those that are want to jump down a non traditional throat here he's not in charge.
We're not saying anything about equality or whose job is to do what.
42:19
Yeah, part of his partnership commitment is to be a good leader at home and partnership with his spouse.
And one of the things that he highlighted in that was some more intentionality around their planning like their own vision for where they're going as a couple financial plans certain wants like hey, we'd like to have X kind of car, we want to have this many children.
42:41
And they just were very intentional about talking about the substance of this planning.
Now is his wife as excited to lead the planning process?
No, but she's, I think that they've really partnered well on establishing what they.
Want and getting more of that experience together because they're proactively leaning into these conversations and keeping short accounts.
43:03
And I think about that in our business, right?
Is your business what you want or is it just something you're existing in?
Well, the shocker here, if you want a business that looks more like what you want, there's a chance that you need to think about this area in your life where you're keeping.
43:20
Longer accounts than you should because we're afraid, because we're not intentionally discussing, we're not addressing these things.
Same in my own home.
Like my wife and I just had this conversation a couple days ago and I think we're actually going to be fairly intentional this next week to get some more time around.
43:36
It is, I just basically said.
You and I win all the time together, but is it everything It could be right where it's easy for my wife as a creative, and this is not a knock on her, it's just the way she is, and we just need to be cognizant of it Is that when you poke at something, the first thought is, is it not good enough?
43:55
Are we failing?
Is this a broken?
Is this a sign of a problem?
Yeah.
And that's not at all what I'm saying.
I'm just saying, hey, we're good.
Can we go to good or Yeah, right, can we go to good to great in some areas?
It's just I think all of us, I think the way that humans are wired is we are wired to grow and it doesn't feel good.
44:14
There's a sickness that sets in with humans.
When we're staying the same, yeah, stagnant.
I just think that's like a reality of life.
And maybe more so for certain personality types.
Yeah, Maybe so, maybe so, but I think it it is, it's just like there's some kind of inherent value in looking for the better.
44:32
Yeah, it like drives us in some kind of positive way.
Yeah, you know, yeah, I agree.
I agree.
Any final thoughts Should.
I try a little summary.
Yeah, we haven't done the summary.
That way that well, it's like old school.
You know, so this concept of keeping short accounts, biblical principle pretty sound, right?
44:49
Instead of stacking up the offenses, probably better to err on the side of sharing those things.
Is there a way to do that in a healthy way that doesn't create more conflict most of the time, but there may be conflict.
But I think part of what we talked about here is having the courage it just aired out.
What's the worst that could happen?
45:06
Somebody gets mad.
Well, you're already mad.
Yeah.
So yeah, right.
Are you going to allow that anger to grow in isolation?
Or are you going to allow it to flare up and flame out and like we can move through it.
And we talked about the relative to our families, our spousal relationships.
45:21
I think it's just such an awesome opportunity there, right.
We talked about to implementing that weekly, having a weekly time that is set where you can bring up to keep short accounts as hey, we're going to talk about in marriage, we're going to talk about sex, we're going to talk about how we're spending money, we're going to touch base and how we're parenting the kids we're going to talk about.
45:42
What we want for the future, we're going to expect to talk about that.
You're going to talk about how you've been experiencing things sex wise.
I'm going to talk about that how we're spending our money this past week.
We're going to, we are going to talk about that rather than waiting for things to come up on a complaint basis.
45:59
And I think we can put there's so much direct application into how we're engaging with our fellow leadership team members, our business partners, our downline employees.
All of these same things apply, so it's all prioritize keeping shorter accounts.
I love that I had one piece.
46:14
OK?
I hate deep.
Yeah.
What I miss I?
Don't know if it's a miss, I think.
I think one thing I'd caution myself in these scenarios is I think I have to think really well on what would I want that person to react.
Like.
Oh, right.
So just thinking about that, like if I could, I want to touch a base on this thing, what would I hope they would respond like?
46:34
I think the opportunity here is you can't control the people, but boy, what a great opportunity for you to decide how you.
Oh man, How am I?
Oh, my God.
Right.
Rate.
Reflection.
How do I contribute to this?
Yeah, like, how am I gonna choose to receive?
46:50
That's right.
When my wife or my downline employee or my colleague brings something to my attention.
That's right.
Do I want to make them feel like they're making a mountain out of a molehill?
Or do I want to investigate and really show some curiosity?
Right, so.
Humility.
47:05
Yeah, like Jim Dethmer talks about this, how when he talks about feedback, rich environment.
I freaking love this.
Yeah, this is so transformational where he said what you're saying, which is rather than coming at feedback from somebody as is this.
Oh yeah.
47:20
Is this true?
Is this feedback correct?
Is this valuable instead starting from the place of how is this true?
Investigating.
Yeah.
Assuming the best of the other, yeah, that there's truth in here for you to gain.
47:37
On a person Again, thanks for hanging out with us.
Love y'all.
We'll see you next to you next time.
Bye.
All right, everybody.
Hey, thanks for joining us for another episode of Head Heart and Boots and.
If you're joining the show that you love this episode, please hit follow formally known as subscribe, Write us a review, or share this episode with a friend.
47:56
Share it on LinkedIn.
Share it via text, Whatever.
It all helps.
Thanks for listening.