0:00
Well my dude, you know this isn't an HHB show per Southeast.
No.
And look, and I think I think it's only fair to our audience that we're a media partner for this upcoming conference, right?
That's fair to say.
That is fair to say we're a media partner.
We're friends of four.
Yeah.
0:15
Those of you aren't familiar with Core, listen to this episode, right?
Use some of your drive time to take this in.
Don't dismiss it because this is a whatever, whatever it's about the collective by core.
It's an upcoming conference in Austin.
We were chatting with Diane and Beth about it before we started the show.
0:31
Like you and I have heard many times before we ever got involved with Core, they like Core is the the event to go to.
And subsequently we've heard about another industry event that people also love to go to.
And what's the common thread?
You know, when people go to conferences, one, you're obviously going for the training.
0:49
It's like good content.
Some conferences have better content than others.
From my perspective, you're going for the location, which is Austin, TX, which is actually is my first time last year being in Austin.
We stayed over with our wives.
1:04
We're going to stay over with our wives.
Again, it's a rad place to extend and and just build a vacation into it.
The Food, First of all, Core does an awesome job with their catering.
Like I remember like all of their, their food in the hotel at the event is very high quality.
1:22
The parties are off the hook like like they're create Core is kind of known for their creative team.
They're really cutting edge, I think within our industry in terms of their graphic design and that shows through in everything the way the events laid out.
Hospitality.
Hospitality in general is awesome.
1:39
And so it's one of those things, bring your spouse if if you're able to bring some of your leadership team, bring your whole leadership team.
We ran into a number of companies that they bring their whole leadership team.
It's a great chance to socialize with your team.
Yeah, it's a great chance to network.
So anyways, we get into it with Diane and Beth there to like key executive figures that put this event together and we dive into the breakouts that you and I are going to be doing.
2:05
Yep, at the event.
I'm excited about, I just can't wait to go.
It's fun, yeah.
It's one we look forward to.
It's July.
It's Austin. 35 days.
Yeah, it's going to be bitching.
So now we mentioned it in the show, but it is really important that if you are going to go and chances are some of you've already been thinking about should I sign up for this?
2:21
Should I do it?
Do you have to be a member?
We get into all of that, but truly it's at the JW Marriott.
You want to stay there.
It's not one that you get a, you get a quality in four blocks away.
No, no, no, no, Do your best to stay at the JW.
So don't wait and wait until the last minute.
2:37
And if Chris is already sold going to the event to you HHB 100, use that when you register and you'll save 100 bucks.
On each of your tickets.
Yeah, on each of your tickets, yeah.
So I mean, imagine just do HHB 100 and that covers maybe some food and drink or one of the evenings, OK.
2:56
Enough, let's get it to go.
Wow, how many of you have listened to the Head, Heart and Boots podcast?
I can't tell you that reaction, how much that means to us.
Welcome back to the Head, Heart and Boots podcast.
I'm Chris.
And I'm Brandon, join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses we lead.
3:15
This new camera angle makes my arms look smaller than yours.
I'm noticing that and I really appreciate it.
I thought you did that on purpose, no?
I, I don't, I didn't and I, I am not happy with it.
Hey all, thanks so much for listening to the show.
Hey, if you're not already following, please do so and ultimately share, right?
3:33
Like the coolest currency that we have in terms of supporting this is share it with a friend, share it with somebody, a colleague, appear one of your downline team members.
Let them be able to take advantage of the information you're already leveraging in your favor.
And finally, guys, if you hear a show that really moves you, that really moves the needle, will you please leave us a review?
3:51
Those five star reviews help us a time.
Right on.
And listen, if you're trying to grow your business, you might consider checking out Floodlights Business Opportunity Audit.
It's free, we provided at no charge.
It's actually what we use to assess new clients as they come in.
4:08
It's 110 point assessment for your business and we've now decided to give access to the general public for it.
So go and take our business opportunity audit at floodlightgrp.com.
It's going to help you identify the biggest gaps and opportunities in your business right now.
And at the end, it'll assign you a health score to let you know exactly where your business stands right now.
4:27
So go check it out floodlightgrp.com/audit.
And take the Boa.
It's a great way to get a pulse on your business.
Well, you 2, welcome back to the show.
Hey, hey, thank you.
Thank.
You thank you for having us.
This is going to be kind of different, right?
4:44
This isn't a normal HHB show.
Well, this is more like 4 people having a really fun conversation about an event that is right around the corner.
That's been badass in the past and I'm assuming it will continue to be badass and that this year.
That is the plan.
That's definitely.
The plan of.
5:00
Course.
All right, well, let's dig in.
What in the heck is going to be happening at the Collective this year?
Let's let's start big picture and then we can start kind of drawn down into the details and getting into the nitty gritty.
Well, you can start with the fun stuff and then get into the business part of it.
5:16
How about that?
That way we just kick it off, you know, fresh fun, have a good time.
One of our I guess it was by popular demand actually is why we chose it was pickle ball.
So we're going to have a pre event this year.
So it's actually prior to the event.
So the night, Sunday the 7th at 4:00 that we're going to do a pickleballs.
5:36
But apparently this is a new craze.
I know in Austin you see it everywhere.
I think the place that we even have rented out is on a garage, rooftop garage.
Or wow.
Awesome pickle ranch.
So is this like tourney style, Like we're all going to sign up and then man or woman?
5:53
Fully expect the headbands, the shorts that come in fully in your.
Pickleball, the dresser, the visors.
Yeah, sweat, arm bands, you know all the.
Things so to speak to that you don't have to have pickle ball experience or you can be an expert.
6:09
What we're doing is we are having Awesome Pickle Ranch help us facilitate this tournament.
So it like kind of puts people where they should be, but there will it will be a lot of fun.
We have a good many people signing up.
So we're really excited about that.
But it's going to be one of those things if you end up being able to get here and can show up, we're basically show up out there at 33345 and we're going to we're going to play football.
6:32
So we're really excited about it.
I think it'll just kind of add a new element to it.
So this is all Sunday.
It's on Sunday, Sunday at 4:00, but it'll start at 4:00.
But there won't be an end time because we don't know how long it's going to take for me to beat everybody and get the trophy so.
6:49
Well, and I've just I've never been there, but since it's on the rooftop a a rooftop of a garage to.
Buy a pickle ball outfit and come to the shack.
That is true that.
Is true any excuse to buy a new outfit, but one of the other things is because of the location.
I'm excited to see if the balls go flying over the rooftop.
7:07
You know, if you expect.
It too hard we can probably.
Go outfit and well, no, that's just that's.
Just.
A bonus.
I love how that was tied to a mandatory outfit purchase.
You know what, I get it.
It's a little loose connection for me, but I can understand how you got there.
7:23
You can't.
Talk not and not see the theme.
Come on, you're better than that.
Yeah, we're all about a theme all week.
So be ready.
That's kind of open that will leave that segue is actually perfectly into the next events is our nighttime.
Some parties, you know, we do all our business during the day and kind of end out the nights with some parties.
7:43
So this year, instead of just doing our pool party, our main pool party, we're doing 2 themed parties.
So the first night on Monday night, we're actually going to be doing our neon party in the trade show.
So in the trade show hall.
So getting with the meet with all of our vendors, seeing their demos, you know, kind of gamifying it a little bit.
8:01
So you have to play some games while you're in there, kind of connect with some of our vendors, but it's all neon themed.
And you know, we made a joke that earlier we were showing the the boards and the boards that we'll be pushing out this week and we.
May or may not.
Have started immediately singing The Fresh Prince of Bel Air we definitely did that and we thanked the entire and one of the girls in the room was like oh it reminds me of the 90s and we're like or 80s but.
8:30
We're.
Older like 80s, but we're like, but they're like, there's that transition, you know, from 80s to 90s where there's that neon theme, all the good stuff.
And like I said, Fresh Prince Availa was definitely 90s.
So there was that.
And then the pool party, the pool festival, it's going to be like a rooftop rave.
8:49
So if you think Beyond Wonderland, it's an EDM festival that they have every year.
And so we kind of had a play on that a little bit.
So this year, last year was more almost like Coachella vibes.
This year is more like Ravy vibes.
So super excited about that.
9:05
So yeah, we have two themed parties.
And to throw into that, so one of the one of our thoughts on that and building that we really want to bring a little more life into the exhibit hall and and focus for our vendors and our exhibitors.
So that night there's going to be a lot in the exhibit hall with our lighting kind of the way we set up the vibe in the room.
9:23
Obviously we said neon.
We have people that, you know, really enjoy, like like Diane already mentioned working on their outfits for the show.
We'd like to theme it out.
So we have inspo boards going out this Friday with all these options for if you want to wear a neon suit, by all means wear a neon suit.
9:40
However, if you're someone that does not want to give a lot of thought to that, we have an attendee T-shirt that's going to be neon focus that you can just throw on the T-shirt and join the party.
So it's not, it doesn't have to be stressful, but the people that really love to go all in, please, by all means go all in.
But we'll have a DJ, the music, all the things that we do to to make it fun.
10:00
So that'll be our exhibitor party on the first night.
And then again, she said we are and we're not going across the street.
We are going upstairs to the rooftop.
But we're super excited because we got the whole pool deck.
So it's massive.
There may or may not be a 18 foot inflatable Bunny on this.
10:19
Maybe I'm not supposed to tell that.
Oh yeah.
Can you like void that out?
It's OK, but there will be you know how we kind of pull out all the stops and there will be some surprise entertainment things like that DJ all the things.
But it's kind of have a going to have a fun some fun surprises, fun themes for that.
10:37
So we're really.
Excited about we will have our tattooer back from last year the entire time.
And a lot of people said they got their first tattoo at the collective.
So we were pretty proud of that.
So yeah, I think that's that's exciting.
10:54
Exciting, I should say.
So yeah, we have all of those going on.
We do again have yoga this year.
So they'll be back for sure then Sling.
For sure, yes, they had a great time and we're super excited about coming back so.
I know we like jumped in like full frenzy into the fun part, but I'm like, I got to connect thoughts to like why, right.
11:13
So for those of you that heard this first part so far and it just sounds like you've signed up to go to a rave or whatever I want.
Look, it is probably some of the best networking time actually takes.
Brillius.
Event, so it is for sure.
And please, by all means, let us back up and talk about the value of that.
11:31
We have come out of a meeting where we were talking about these aspects, which is why this is what first came out because we're finalizing a lot of the planning on those items.
But if I can move into the content, that would be a good place to go to go so that all these owners who are sending their wonderful employees know that they're going to leave and be better.
11:51
Employees after they leave because of.
The in depth.
So we are excited.
I think that we've kind of mentioned this out in the industry, but one thing we are doing very different this year is in the past we have had all the presentations, a lot of breakout submissions have been selective, but we've had 30 different options you 25 to 30 different options.
12:14
So we decided to take a different approach this year and we really had a more extensive process of application and of analyzing kind of what would make sense and we wanted to really narrow that down.
So how that's going to look is everybody, it's going to have 5 opportunities to go to a 60 minute breakout sessions.
12:33
So we 560 minute breakout sessions.
What that means is every attendee will choose five of the 12 breakout sessions they're offered.
So there are only 12, there are no you got 12 really high quality in depth session.
12:48
Two of those being the world famous Chris Nordike and Brandon.
So if you all want to share a little bit about your breakouts, but we have really great speakers coming in.
Katie Harris, Mark, she's going to do some marketing.
13:04
Marcy Richardson's going to be focusing on HR Josh with The Oland is going to have some great new content he's going to have.
So we're really excited.
But it will, like I said, the only 12 different sessions that people can choose from.
So we're really hoping to push people kind of into fill those rooms and have kind of a little more in depth in those sessions.
13:25
So we're really excited about that.
And that was some of the feedback that you guys had gotten.
You guys worked, so it's hard to develop a really rich list of opportunities.
We almost over opportunity people, right?
That little analysis paralysis kind of kicked in.
Absolutely, absolutely, definitely just you know, you, you just want to give so much good out there.
13:44
You just want to put it all out there.
And sometimes you realize why quality is more important than and not that it wasn't good quality, it's just there's not enough time for everybody to to soak it all in.
So we really want to focus in and just make that easier for everybody to to make those good selections on what will be relevant into what they're dealing with in their business and in their own growth at this time.
14:04
I think so.
I was kind of tongue in cheek about the fun part.
But you know what, I think what's cool about this is this is a good excuse for us to unplug, like get out, get away from the business.
It's not like, I'll be honest, like to travel around the nation just to go to training.
There's a reality that it's still a bit of a grind.
14:21
So I think having to, you know, let your hair down, have a good time with peers, be able to network, but really have like A2 Fer right, get a lot of education, a lot of good exposure closure and have a lot of freaking fun.
We had a ton of fun last.
Year well, and the reality is, and we always say this and we know this and even based on what you guys shared last year and and Akina, this is where relationships are built.
14:43
I mean, these are the these are the experiences.
It's not it's in the breakout sessions, but it's at the night time experiences together.
It's in the trade show hall.
It's it's the presence, it's the community that's been built in this industry.
Is that these events?
You know, I mean, there's so many great people in the industry and this is where we have the opportunity to have these shared experiences and we are really enjoy, as you can probably tell, we really enjoy creating these experiences for people to come together, which really leads me into our keynote, which is one of the things I'm so, so pumped about.
15:15
And actually, you guys, I believe we're the ones that introduced Flint Pover last year and we just couldn't make it happen last year, but we were really held on tight hoping that we can make it happen this year.
And when I tell you, we are so excited.
I've shared that Mister Jensen video with so many people it's unreal, but we are going to have a 90 minute interactive keynote session and we're going to have drumsticks in everybody's hands and have the whole shebang.
15:42
I told Diane and I need to quit saying this, but I had a 30 minute call with Clint the other day and I got off the call and I was like, I'm freaking changing the world.
I'm running for president.
I am just, we are doing this guys.
So excited and so inspired.
Actually, I'm not a politics fan, so I'm definitely not doing that.
15:58
But I was super inspired just after being on even a short call with him about just all the things I'd already known, but just his energy and sharing how he wanted to bring this experience to life for us.
And said for listeners who may not know, plan is somebody that his really, his story is really about how one moment and one person can make such a profound impact on the trajectory of your life.
16:22
And just knowing that we have that power within us to inspire someone's life in such a powerful way.
And so his story is that, but he's really going to bring it into culture and employee experience.
And there is no way that anybody's going to leave that and not feel just incredibly empowered.
16:41
And to me, that's huge because when people feel like they can make a difference, that's when they make a difference.
If they don't feel like they can, they're not going to.
That's not where they're headed, but I'm super excited about that.
And then of course, in addition to him, we'll have our round tables and our carrier conversations and AI mainstage with Garrett Gray or logic.
17:02
He's going to bring some AI, which we're always interested in kind of where that's at or where it's headed and the impact it'll have on all of us in our industry.
So and then Layton with know how we'll also have a little, he's going to give a quick state of the industry update, which will be good.
So we're, we're popped.
17:17
We're we're ready.
We're not already.
We need our 35 days, but we're excited, very excited, very excited.
Chris, you, I mean, I think the beginning of the Clint Pulver connection was actually was it you and I at hit at the Orla event?
17:33
Yeah, it was, yeah.
At which event?
It was like an Orla.
Yeah, this was years ago.
This is back when Brandon and I were operating in the field.
A lot of our commercial clients were in the hotel space.
Yeah.
And so we were at, we were actually a major sponsor at the Oregon Restaurant Lodging Association conference.
17:50
And so we, we showed up to this event and Clint was the main keynote and we participated in the, we shouldn't give too much away.
You can Google and stuff, but but it was, it was an incredibly powerful and fun experience.
And, and I think, you know, this speaks to one of the things that I think Brandon and I and the rest of the floodlight team really appreciate about core and why we, why we'd love to be involved is there's the practical elements of business that are really important, right skill building on some of the business fundamentals.
18:18
But then there's this culture piece, right, of, of what sort of energy, what sort of personality, what, what kinds of companies are we trying to build, right.
And I think what we like so much about Clint is he brings the data, the supporting data and sort of the fundamentals of what are these critical behaviors and what are the observations and research and all this stuff saying about how to build culture.
18:41
And then he's got this really incredible kind of emotional component that I think helps give you a visual of what does it look like to lead in today's environment in such a way that people want to follow and people want to be a part, right.
18:57
And, and it's really cool some of the interviews and some of the stories and anecdotes that he brings into, you know, from his research and his work with major, major companies all over the place.
It's just, it's really cool.
And it's so core like, like his message is so core like.
19:12
And that I think it hits on that, that component of yeah, sure.
The nuts and bolts are important.
We've got breakout sessions about, you know, various aspects of the business, but I think that's what I appreciate about core is just you guys tend to major a little bit more on sort of the values stuff that we're bringing to our business.
19:30
The.
Relationship.
Yeah, the relationship.
Because that's.
All yeah, that's the I and and I think all of us see that trend that that's becoming more of a leadership behavior that's required today, right, is how do we connect with that part of the people that we're bringing our team and what do and what do our people expect from us now?
19:46
It's different, right, than it was 10 years ago or 20 years ago.
Well, and I think Clint, I mean, we won't get spun out on him too long.
Actually, that reminds me it's time to get him back on here.
But you know, that's why we really connected with him just in terms of where he was going professionally as he's a really a big preacher about this accountability in context to connection and relationship.
20:06
And we just fundamentally that's like in complete alignment with what we want to be focused on and dedicated to.
And so and then we're not going to give anything away, but I will guarantee you you've never experienced a keynote like he will be providing.
This is not a slide deck driven conversation.
20:24
Like it's just just going to put it there.
And then yeah, you're and he's 10 Xed it since we've seen it.
We've talked to him at length about it and it's I'm psyched to participate in what he's going to do now, so I can't wait.
So what?
Say, have you seen him since then?
No.
20:39
So this will be since then how many?
How many years ago was that?
Oh geez.
Pushing six years ago, Probably 5-6.
Wow.
Oh awesome.
Well, that'll be fun to hear your perspective on how it.
Yeah, it was way early.
Oh, 100% yeah.
I think, I think we've all laughed kind of about even like how long ago that was for him, like in terms.
20:59
Of.
Developed.
I mean, he's a true gangster.
Now, hey, hey, one thing that's worth saying, where a conference is located is a pretty big factor in terms of just the overall experience of it.
And of course, there's conferences all over the United States.
Many of them move.
And I got to be honest, like this is one of those conferences we always get excited about.
21:18
So Brandon and I are bringing our spouses again for the second year in a row.
We're going to extend our trip a little bit and turn this into a little bit of a vacation because it's awesome.
I mean, not only that.
Yeah.
So that part is fun.
And for those owners and people that have the ability to take a couple extra days after the conference, it's a rad place to do it.
21:37
If you haven't spent much time in Austin, the Tex Mex, the BBQ, Terry Blacks, all the things.
I'm hoping we can check out a comedy club too, because Austin's becoming kind of Comedy Central.
21:53
But the venue is awesome.
The JW Marriott, awesome venue, great hotel, gym.
And for those of you that like to stay fit, it's a really great gym.
And it's always full.
I mean, it's, it's full, it's huge, and there's a lot of attendees.
22:09
Last year I was really impressed.
I was like, oh hey, nice, nice work.
Liftify.com.
Forward slash blood Lite, you've heard.
Brandon and I talk a bunch of times about the importance of Google reviews, maybe even heard our episode with Zach Garrett, the CEO and founder.
22:24
Recency, consistency.
Two of the most important things when it comes to maximizing the benefit from your Google reviews.
Why not use an outside partner?
Lyftify is targeting 20 to 25% conversion, right?
So if you do 1000 jobs a year, you ought to be adding right now 200 to 250 reviews a year, every single year.
22:44
If you're not doing that, you owe it to yourself to get a free demo from lyftify.com.
See their system, see how it works, see how affordable it is.
I promise you, you'll thank us, lyftify.com forward slash.
Blood light.
You know, we spend a lot of money and a lot of attention trying to get that first call.
23:02
And one of the things that we do once it happens is sometimes we leave it to chance, right?
Who picks up the phone?
How do they respond?
How do they walk that client into a relationship with us?
Well, one of the benefits of partnering with a team like answerforce.com is we can systemize that.
We can make it more consistent.
23:18
We can also have backup for when our teams need that help, right?
Somebody goes on vacation, somebody's out sick, you know, we get a storm surge, we get cat event, all sorts of things can have an impact on how we receive that client.
But the most important thing is they need to know that they've chosen the right team.
23:35
And so answerforce.com can support you be a bolt on partner to help you consistently produce an awesome onboarding experience with that first call with your client.
So answerforce.com/bloodbite.
That's great.
CNR Magazine, we're friends with all the folks at CNR, Michelle and her team, they do a great job of keeping their ear to the ground and reporting all the important information from our industry, right?
23:59
You want to stay up on all the M&A activity and what the latest best practices are for selling your company successfully, right?
She's got that great articles about all the four quadrants of our business, right?
CNR is constantly pushing out great material and leveraging great writers and subject matter experts in our industry.
24:17
It is the water cooler of our industry.
So if you're not subscribed, go to cnrmagazine.com.
Follow them on LinkedIn, follow Michelle on LinkedIn.
Trust us, if you're trying to stay on top of everything happened in the industry, your best destination is cnrmagazine.com.
24:33
You guys, many of you have already heard about Actionable Insights and the training and the technical expertise that they bring to the industry.
But how many of you are already leveraging the actionable insights profile for Xactimate?
That's the game changer.
24:49
It's essentially an AI tool that's walking alongside of you as you write your estimate, bringing things to your attention that should be added that could be considered all of them.
Items that increase our profitability increase the effectiveness and the consistency of that scope, and it can do anything from helping a new team member assimilate as some estimating best practices.
25:10
And it also helps the grizzled vets add back that few percent that we've just forgot over time.
So Actionable Insights.
Get insights.org/floodlight and take a look at what the Actionable Insights Exactimate Profile could be doing for you and your team.
25:30
Do you want to talk a little bit about the breakout that you're doing?
Yeah, sure.
I'll, I'll, I'll jump in it.
So mine, you know, we really want to kind of dive into the operational space, the leadership space.
And one of the things we we were just actually making jokes recently.
It seems like when you start to land on a bit of a theme, then inevitably it's like every other conversation with a team or a group that it's like this topic comes up.
25:50
So I'm actually getting really excited about it.
But it's a real opportunity, I think, for us as a group in the room to focus our attention in terms of leadership, like where we should be devoting our energies.
And I think one of the things that we see as owners and, and key leaders is there's a million things vying for our time.
26:07
There's always fires to put out and we struggle to create solutions that solve problems.
And we just inevitably hang in this firefighting place.
And right.
So my intent for the content that we're going to cover is I want to discuss some actual things that we can be doing as key leaders to remove that chaos, to begin focusing our attention on the right places, creating solutions instead of firefighting so that the effort that we put forth is sustainable.
26:34
So I'm not going to go into any more of like the maybe the deliverables on it, but that's the space that we're going to hang.
Obviously people are seeing stuff right, getting sent out on the social.
So I know LinkedIn posts have been coming out where you guys are highlighting the different speakers and the content.
26:50
So anyways, I'm, I'm hopeful that somebody will be in the room with me and that I won't be talking myself.
But I think if you're in that place as a business owner, as a key leader, where you've got a bit of a gap between what you want your business to do and what it's actually doing, I think it would be well worth your time to come hang out with me.
27:06
I think you'll walk away with some stuff that you can put into practice that will change that so you can have some fun and walk away and with hopefully enough energy to put some stuff into practice.
And I think it would be super viable.
Yeah.
Just a little bit more on that.
You know, I think we often refer to some of what you're going to break down for folks is the leaders standard work.
27:24
You know, I think all of us have read the books by like John Maxwell and Jim Collins and some of these like business writers that they talk about leadership and they're all very, very good.
But I think sometimes, in particularly our industry, sometimes it's hard to connect the dots as what does that look like on a day-to-day basis in a restoration company?
27:43
Kind of stays in the headspace of right, great idea, we should do that, that sounds great, but then the instrumentation or the reality of it.
Yeah, right now what?
That's right.
And so I think you do a great job of connecting those dots for folks like how do we apply some of those best practices and things that we sort of inherently know about leadership and management into the life of a restoration company owner, department manager, etcetera.
28:06
So it's it is going to be a really good one.
So I'm going to be building on I think what what is becoming much more of an industry focus, which is how do we effectively sell commercial, right.
You know, there's obviously if you're part of a franchise system or you're part of one of the large enterprise restores, they have national account teams that are selling for you into the commercial space.
28:29
But I think everybody is trying to figure out how do I sell commercials locally in my own markets, in the towns and cities that we operate indirectly.
And it's a big black box for most restores, even the bigger restores we talked to.
And so we're going to be talking about specifically how do we leverage an emergency readiness or response plan as the leading product that we sell or the service that we sell prior to a damage event, right?
28:57
How do we use that as tip of the spear in a very specific process?
You know, the industry and, and we've talked about this many times before.
The industry I think got started in kind of a good old boys and girls network of relationships.
29:13
And then from that, we started gifting, right, doing the baseball tickets in Bourbon, right?
And then it turned into agent office visits with a State Farm PSP program and a lot of the other carrier programs at the agent office.
And that got us into the candy and smiles routine.
29:29
And I think everybody around the nation is starting to see diminishing returns from those practices, right?
And COVID, I think, put the death nail in a lot of those.
And so now it's like, OK, how can our team have a systematic standardized approach to how we're going to sell and connect with commercial clients.
29:46
And that's what we're going to dig into and just break out.
So I, I think it's going to be great.
It's going to be very actionable, just like the operations material brand is going to get into.
It's something that people can immediately implement when you get to their operations.
I love that you just shared all that and kind of validated exactly the point of what what we're trying to do.
30:05
We won't break out everything you guys just said.
It brings so much value to the restorer.
It brings so much value to their business.
It's how's you thinking about things from a different perspective like you do.
We get caught in the grind of the day-to-day.
We don't address things, We don't work on things proactively.
30:23
And so like what you guys both just explained in your breakouts are things that from our perspective are incredibly valuable to restores and to people in their businesses, which is why it all comes together with what we're trying to create.
30:40
Is that value and actionable?
Like you said, that's huge.
Anybody can give a good talk.
How are you?
Well, not anybody, but they're not anybody.
But but you know, people can give a good talk, but what, what can people leave with?
30:57
And they go, this really changes the way we operate.
This changes the outcome, it changes the way we do it.
And you guys are two people that have shown that in in what you're doing in the industry and in the content that you're putting out, which is why we are excited you guys will be there as partners and and deliver breakouts that are valuable.
31:14
So thank you.
For that, and I'd just like to add to that too, Chris, I think you've hit the nail on the head a little bit there about what we used to do versus what we do today.
And we've noticed that just as core bringing in our own prospects for membership and things like that.
31:29
We we talked to them about that, you know that a lot of businesses, even the bigger ones, they have forgotten how to sell their business.
They've forgotten that human connection, that human touch.
A lot of them are reliant on programs, program work, so they forget how to actually sell their business.
31:47
And if they mess up one time, some of these programs, we'll cut them off like that.
And if they're reliant on that, then what are they going to do?
You know, they they no longer know how to sell their business anymore.
So I think that's going to be something that's very valuable.
I had the opportunity to have you speak at our sales and marketing Summit on sales.
32:04
It's a members only event that you got to speak there and also kind of teach and build and help our members build a plan that we had great feedback from.
And everyone was just like, wow, that was really cool.
And to be able to have someone kind of help us maybe where we we felt like we were in going in the right route, but by having him kind of show us a little bit more, we were able to really kind of hone in that sales plan, you know, that road map for our business.
32:30
So I think like I said, you hit the nail on the head.
And you know, we talk a lot about connection.
And yeah, I think that's a big part of what core is, is connecting, connecting the dots, connecting people, connecting resources, you know, making sure when we are bringing this content, choosing this content that it is connecting with, you know, our stores, getting even our stores connected with our carriers at our event.
32:51
You know, that's not something you see at any other event is we actually go, hey, our carriers now are saying we want to do these Q&A S with your restorers.
We want them to know what we're looking for and we want them to be able to ask us questions the same way so we can help each other work together if we're going to be working together in this capacity.
33:11
So I think that, again, that is part of what core is and I think that's something we're very proud of.
And I think another difference is, you know, back to also culture.
Whatever we have, whether it's a vendor or a contractor or a carrier or any kind of outside speaker, we were talking about this earlier that they can come in and any core member is going to greet them the same way they would greet a family member.
33:34
Hey, it's great to see you.
You know, you've never met them.
It's great to see you.
And none of us are prompted to do that.
We're not told, hey, you got to do this, you got to say this.
So this is just how we hire, you know, this is this is part of our core values is being part of a collective.
And it just happens to be, you know, it became our our name for our festival now first and then it wound up being part of our core values.
33:54
So I think that speaks a little bit to the whole connection pieces that we are collective.
That's always been something we live and breathe as a company is having all that connection and just helping, helping each other out, helping support each other instead of trying to keep each other down or a little.
Bit competition and just the hospitality aspect of that, just we enjoy being hospitable, you know, it's part of kind of who we are.
34:17
Well, I think it's interesting too.
And this is something that I actually had learned from being exposed to some of our clients is in the early days, like when I was operating, I did not, I was not a person that placed a high value on these on these events.
Absolutely.
34:34
And it it felt like I was always too busy to participate.
I didn't, you know, it's like, OK, yeah, I could get some training.
I had million excuses why I could just devalue the opportunity.
And, you know, it's interesting.
Some of the most successful clients that we work with in terms of scaling and developing their businesses, if you look at them, there is actually a very common theme.
34:56
And that theme is, is that they participate and when they get there, they network their asses off.
And then I, you know, I think we look at it as a restore and I go, well, there's nobody I'm selling to per Southeast at these events.
And they've approached it from Yeah.
35:11
But these, these networked relationships can enhance the way I operate as a restorer.
They can give me insight often that I don't have myself because they might be two or three steps in front of me, right.
I think it provides, you know, us is restores the opportunity to to to mentor someone else.
35:28
Like I think there's a reality that it feels good when you share information and you're not stuck in this world of oh gosh, I do restoration so different that if I talk about it, someone will overtake my business Guys, the gears all the same shit.
Let's be honest about what we're doing right, But it feels good.
35:46
We had.
A conversation earlier about the scarcity versus abundant.
The mentality of that, like we got to hoard it and not share it with anybody else where we can all be lift each other up.
It's the whole prize by lifting others and being open to there's enough for everyone.
36:02
Like, let's do this in a better way together versus trying to protect what's ours.
And I think this really is a way for you to see your fellow restorers like that was.
The other thing is I felt so isolated.
I just was so disconnected from everybody.
36:20
And then you don't get a lot of of integration or interaction in your own market, which I get it, like, you know, nobody wants to drink coffee with their competitor per se.
But man, to know that I could leave my state and start rubbing elbows with a bunch of successful people, they're not impeding on my market space.
36:37
And if anything, when storms hit, I have a a bro Sif, you know, a curing chronic that I can lean on and be like, hey, let's do some business together.
So and.
I do think that's another theme in our culture now is just the, the power of community and how much we need it.
You know, we, we can have tended to be somewhat isolated like you mentioned.
36:56
And there's so much power in, in just having community.
People need it like you need it.
And when you have a healthy community of people that you do the same things when you learn so much, I mean, there's so much I learn.
I don't, I'm not a restorer and I I just learn from listening to the people that are there.
37:14
I can imagine how much it's how impactful it is to learn from each other.
I wanted to ask you a question that maybe some of the listeners are are thinking to themselves.
Does somebody need to be a member of Core to be able to attend the collective?
No, this is open to the industry.
37:30
So like I said, we connect everyone.
We even have other franchises that want to come and see us.
We have some that are on our affiliate program that do amazing work for us that we've built good relationships with that we know we can call on.
37:46
So no, it's anyone in the industry, whether it's an insurance carrier, whether it's another contractor, another vendor that maybe says, hey, I just want to see the show before I commit to a booth.
I want to see what this whole thing is about that everybody keeps talking about.
And nine times out of 10, they're buying a booth by the end of the show because they're like, we want to be part of this.
38:05
You know, we see what the value is.
We see what you're bringing to the table.
We want to we want to be a part of it so anybody can come.
We just registered at the collected by core.com.
Yeah, do it again.
So let's let's hit that and let's slam down some dates and then just one more for us, the venue location, right?
38:25
Let's just cover all of that and then obviously point them towards the website to go get their butts signed up.
Where are they going?
Let's throw out really quickly that there's a discount code for anybody listening to your podcast, HHB 100.
We'll give $100 off per ticket and it is WWW dot the collective by core.
38:44
It is at the JW Marriott in downtown Austin July 8th through the 10th.
But if you want to play some pickleball, come on July the 7th.
We definitely want you to join.
Go buy your outfit.
I'm all ready.
We'll be there waiting for you.
Whatever you want.
38:59
Please show up with headbands and you're short.
Please that would be the best.
That could be good premise for you guys, right?
You know what's cracking me up right now is in the back of my head.
I know that as soon as I tell my wife that pickleball is happening.
39:15
Like if travel plans wouldn't have allowed it, we were probably changing flights because she talks about pickleball more than anybody I know.
Please.
Bring your wife.
And will she want an outfit?
Can I encourage that?
Please, please bring your wife to pickleball.
39:33
I would be like connect with Diane.
She's already got a lead on an outfit, so yeah.
I do.
I'll get her the link.
I'll let her know.
I'm like, here you go.
This is awesome, guys.
Well, I know we're looking forward to it.
We get psyched this time of year when we start thinking about the collective as it approaches.
39:49
And so we approach the show with like this nervous excitement.
We get nervous about the fact that if we're going to be taking up people's time, we want to provide as much value as we can shove into that exposure and that opportunity as possible.
We take that seriously and we just get amped to come have a lot of fun.
40:06
Not only do we get to see you guys, obviously we have a great relationship with the core team, but man, it's for us.
It's like this is the.
The time that we do hours and hours of virtual visits with all these partners and friends all over the industry and this is our time to like rub elbows, see each other face to face, give hugs, catch up and be like, oh, you are a real person.
40:24
So we're jazz.
We're excited.
I hope if you haven't registered yet guys, it this is move your schedule around and just come it'll be a lot of fun you're going to enjoy it.
Now we know too we got HHB 100.
So we're going to throw that out.
We'll throw that in the show notes as well as two quick.
40:40
Little clips tube right before.
Also one thing we didn't mention is we are doing this year a women's networking breakfast.
So it will be the breakfast at regular time breakfast, just in a different room.
I myself got into restoration back in 2004 in marketing and restoration for contractors.
40:56
So I know where we've come from, where we've grown to.
So it's just the time that we can support and empower our other women in restoration.
We'll also have our carriers there, you know, things like that.
So it's something to to kind of keep mindful of and if you haven't already booked your room, book your room because the block, the hotel deadline for our block ends to lock in those rates is June 14th, so next Friday.
41:20
Next Friday.
So we also wanted that.
So even if you'll.
Want to be there?
Yeah, you're.
You'll want to be there if you.
Can at the JW if you.
Absolutely yes, I'm.
Glad you said that because it is sometimes people don't recognize like for our event is so immersive in like, you know, start to finish and part of the experience is being there with everyone.
41:41
So if you're considering not staying on site, I would recommend that you really think twice about that and go ahead and get your room booked because like she said, there could potentially be availability after the 14th, but we can't guarantee anyone in the court block and after the 14th.
41:57
So please, please go ahead and reserve those rooms.
And the link for that is on the website as well.
Yes.
Awesome.
Yeah, Well, you guys, I know you got plenty of things to do between now and 35 days, so.
Yeah.
We'll let you go and we'll obviously be seeing you guys here very quickly.
42:14
And I want a shirt this year.
OK, All right.
Oh.
Yeah, I was jealous of hers last year.
He was.
Jealous of mine and thanks for joining us from outer space.
This is the first time we've had we've had a recording with anyone in space.
Has anybody told y'all that literally it looks like stars.
42:30
It might be our computer.
Maybe it is.
Yeah, it might be your monitor I it.
Might because it looks like Galaxy.
It looks like Galaxy Galaxy.
Yeah, yeah, it's less Galaxy in real life.
It's probably more like dangerous.
I love it.
And I felt kind of, you know, important that we were with astronauts today, so.
42:50
That's right, we're coming to you from the future.
I love it, I love it.
I love.
It all right, gang.
Thanks we'll.
See you guys.
Thank you guys so much for.
Having us see y'all soon?
All right, everybody.
Hey, thanks for joining us for another episode of Head, Heart and Boots and.
43:06
If you're enjoying the show but you love this episode, please hit follow, formerly known as subscribe, write us a review or share this episode with a friend, Share it on LinkedIn, share it via text, whatever.
It all helps.
Thanks for listening.