0:07
Welcome Back To The Head heart and Boots podcast.
I'm Chris and I'm Brandon.
Join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses we leave this industry.
That might be a blush expenditure, which is what I was trying to explain to you guys for those of you that just jumped into that.
0:26
And I don't know if Joel keep it in there or not, but that was negotiations happening.
And what I attempted to do was Slide something in that I want right at the last minute before hitting record so that Chris couldn't tell me.
No, no, nah, I don't know if you have business partners.
0:43
That's a methodology you can attempt to deploy.
I'm of just come just suggesting I was I like to buy new shiny things too and some of them have disappointed me ballast.
Yes sure I can do many things that are not.
If and in fact the sad story is probably 80% of the shiny things that I buy and of don't you honey me right?
1:03
Yeah, if not Really not too long with a very short, honeymoon Korea.
If it does, I saw.
Hey, dude, how's it going man?
Hey, good.
Yeah.
Are you welcome?
Glad you could join us.
Chris.
I was just saying, I really enjoy this new podcast set up.
For those of you that are listening and you haven't made your way over to our YouTube channel.
1:20
We it's evolving.
It's an evolution worse.
Yeah, business, you know, we know we don't have like designers on our staff that are just sort of constantly leveling up.
We show up to a brand-new completed Studio, it's rather than progress that would be pretty sweet.
We do actually have a designer on the team.
1:36
It's just, you know.
Yeah.
They do a lot of other things too.
And so his friend but we have a custom-made podcast table, that's really freaking cool.
Yeah I found of that.
Yes I got a new backdrop on the way.
Yeah that'll be will be updating that in the next few weeks.
1:52
I think and we got some comfortable chairs, come a little swivel, warn them badass it up a little bit higher but anyways, really fun.
New things are fun.
That's right.
Let's rock some sponsors and then you had a line on Show topic that I'm actually kind of psyched about it.
I think you'll be good.
Yeah dude, me to dive into me to yeah, I'm gonna go lift a fireman.
2:10
So just uh you just hold your horses.
Okay.
And no, did I say that right?
Because just for those are you that are listening?
It Chris has been correcting my understanding and interpretation of old sayings.
So we started the morning with for all intensive purposes.
Well, lo and behold that is bass-ackwards, that is wrong, that is incorrect.
2:30
It is not for all intensive.
Purposes.
It is for all intents and purposes, right?
And one of those you have very few.
I will commit to identifying your idiosyncrasies when I noticed him.
2:48
Hey, careful with the end and I'll try to pick the right timing.
Where?
Yes isshin to receive that feedback.
That's right.
Yeah, he goes fragile timing matters yet.
All of us.
You know what, I'm not digging very much.
This new camera angle makes my arms look smaller than yours.
Yeah, I think we're going to scrap the whole studio.
I'm noticing that my really Shit.
3:04
Yeah, see before I was winning.
I thought you did that on purpose, tell me.
Hey, I don't I didn't and I am not happy with it.
We're all intents and perio.
You have very few of those idiosyncrasies and you know, what?
If you say it fast enough?
I think probably 90% of the time.
People don't even notice anyway, so like, oh yeah, for all intense purposes is what he just said.
3:21
I would bet that people don't know.
Most, maybe I'm the only Neanderthal in the group made of ice out of some value there.
I think, RIT we just trained, we just conducted some training.
I'm gonna have to hit the gym a little bit hard on.
I'm really intimidated by this new.
I think that every our eyes, all your biceps, so I'm like, God, I need to catch up a little bit here.
3:40
Alright, let's get into this because people are like, guys.
I do have an hour trip between jobs, but I don't want to listen to you a little bit of you.
Yeah, that's yeah, that's right after.
All right, let's get into this tape lift defy.
You guys know that they've been a key sponsor of the show for quite some time.
And you guys have also heard us talk at Great length that that partnership has to be a two-way street.
4:00
Meaning there has to be real value for our listeners.
Our clients for Money to be on that roster and lift.
If I as you guys know, we are huge fans, they produce results, they do it consistently, it's not voodoo magic.
They have a system, a process that you can plug into your your organization.
4:17
They will chase those five star Google reviews for you.
And then, of course, as you wrap those up, as you start getting the actual number of reviews that you've earned, then the SEO applications the findability, right?
The searchability of your organization just skyrockets and then the key piece that that Zack and the team constantly preach.
4:37
Is this idea that you need to have them consistently and they need to be relevant and fresh.
Meaning we can't do a push for 90 days, get a bunch of reviews and then let it hang for the rest of the year.
Google recognizes that is not a value in terms of how people are seeing your business.
4:54
So again, lift five.com forward, slash floodlight all sorts of opportunities there for you.
Two to get that on-boarded in a way.
That'll start Skyrocket, what's happening with your brand.
Mine.
Yeah, and then see in our magazine, you know, we've been ringing this Bell for a while now and we really do.
5:11
We like seeing our where advertisers and CNR we put our money where our mouth is and we really enjoy Michelle in the team.
I actually did, I just saw an article by Marci Richardson, did you see that on culture company culture?
That really good person to oh my gosh, you fast badly, I mean, guarantee they get some really interesting stuff happening there in the South.
5:30
She is one of the leaders the helm there, so talked about Out some of their culture practices.
Internal he's really great.
So this stuff is relevant.
Michelle has a way of connecting with talented thought leaders in the industry and getting them on board head.
5:45
So she's got a great stable of writers from all different companies.
In areas the industry that produce content sources and just Rando on 10th that your are buying.
This is its stock a photo, you know, kind of kind of content that they're putting out.
It's really good.
It's really in touch with what's happening industry.
6:02
Yeah, you know whether your ass.
Supplier, you're recruiting, whatever could be a great place to advertise, very cost effective for us.
We've seen a lot of results, a lot of audience growth on our podcast, from our advertising on, see an arm and also to, it's just a great way to stay up, you know, she's scooping stories.
6:20
Yeah, all the time.
In fact, it was funny, it was funny.
We were having a conversation with a really prominent industry executive and he was acting all tight-lipped about.
I think I mentioned this in a previous podcast but telling us about an acquisition that was just getting ready to be.
Bounced and literally like five minutes before the call, I saw it on my LinkedIn feed from Michelle and see it already early in that story.
6:42
That's right.
There already are all over.
I felt pretty important anyhow.
So there we go, there's our sponsors.
Check them out so today.
Yes.
And here's yeah, we others.
Okay, so kind of setting the table.
So where did this come from?
How did I come back to this?
6:58
Because I have a notes file, like probably many of you my iPhone first, like I, oh yeah, I should.
Discount come back to that.
Yeah.
And then this past week, I was having a conversation with one of our larger clients and they're frustrated, there's some frustration right now, a turnover and well, I'll probably everybody listening to this can relate to what that feels like.
7:18
Maybe you're struggling with right now.
Maybe you're not.
But I think there's this sense from them.
That they can't quite find out.
Why you know they feel like they're doing the right things, they're respectful to their people, their pain, people competitively all the all the things that you kind of want to check all Those boxes is like God, why are we struggling wire losing people?
7:38
And so on the heels of that conversation, there's been a number of other conversations.
I've been in this week all around this topic and I went back to our notes and I found this quote from Jordan Peterson, but I heard on a podcast a few weeks ago and I just think, man, it's so good.
7:54
So, Jordan Peterson.
He said this, I tried to get it verbatim, I listened to it like 14 times, trying to head record it as close as I could.
What you want to do, is build a company.
On the intrinsic alignment of interests.
Each person pursuing a goal that they intrinsically value that they're willing to work for dedicate themselves to and sacrifice themselves for, and then you want each of these goals, to be serving, a superordinate goal, a superordinate goal that unites and moves the entire team ahead, then you don't have to use coercion or manipulation to People got that last sentence, that is what really grabbed me, man.
8:38
I was thinking about that coercion or manipulation to motivate people.
There's so many different ways we could break this down and talk about it.
But what's that mean coercion and manipulation?
Because I think we do that and I think in some ways that is part of the Playbook and business, okay, coercion manipulation at, we have a really negative sounding connotation.
8:59
But what is it?
Well, I think part of it is it's carrot and stick.
Yeah, it's a hey Yeah you do this.
This is going to happen, you don't do this this is going to happen, right?
And and and that's it.
What we call often accountability.
Yeah.
Right.
And so I think what he's saying is this is an ideal Target that he just described, are we ever going to get there entirely with all of our people?
9:21
Probably know not but what I think what he's saying is is in the highest performing teams.
If you look behind the curtain, what you have is a tremendous amount of alignment.
It between what the people the parts of the team really want?
9:38
Not what they say they want.
So they can get the raise not.
So what they say they want or like so that they don't get fired.
But like these people really they have something that they are engaged with that is personally satisfying to them.
9:56
Yeah.
And that all of those people or a majority of those people, right?
Probably more realistic language.
You are never going to be 100.
Are there things that they're driven by are aligned with the vision and direction of the company and what the company is trying to do?
10:15
And that when you have that, that Baseline accountability, these accountability structures of don't do this, don't do that.
We always do this, we never do that the punishment, the write-ups.
It becomes unnecessary.
10:31
Yeah.
And I think we've Paul seen examples of this.
There's some iconic examples of this kind of alignment.
Well, and I think the thing is raised when we start a concept from a quote, we need to remember that in those cases.
10:47
Most of the time.
What's being communicated is the Pinnacle yeah?
Like in best case scenario, right?
Like if in a test tube completely unaffected by outside, this is what we you would ultimately shoot for.
This is the the aspirational goal.
11:04
Just for relevance though, the reality is you you're not going to necessarily hit that.
If the idea is index heavier on the intrinsic building into the system that it creates this engagement and loyalty to it intrinsically inside the employee so that there's less of a need, are these other?
11:22
I totally agree with you but I also think though we all have we have these familiar icons that we see and I think as owners and leaders and service companies where we do this really hard work and it's hard to Find people that want to do is kind of work and all that kind of stuff, is just difficult for us to make the connection some time to companies like apple.
11:39
I think Apple at least has been a type of example, of this.
There's other companies that I admire, like, Bridgewater Associates, Ray dalio, one of the most successful investment funds, wall time Amazon.
You know, these kind of companies that there's such an Allure and draw to what they're about, what they accomplished, what their vision is for how they affect their industry is.
12:02
I think they tap into some of this Programmers want to work at Apple because of what it means, what they get to do.
What they get to create right.
Like apple can get any talent that they want period.
Because there's there's something special that all of them are charging for.
12:19
They want to be a part of the question is, can we do that in our industry?
I think we can.
I think there's examples.
You know, I think some of the conversations and we had we don't work in this business and we've never seen it firsthand.
We've seen stuff only Dennis so forth like watley's business.
An emergency pack out Co runs on the California, they're pursuing the hug.
12:38
There's a level of focus and intentionality and and derive across the team to make their customers feel good and a time that otherwise feels pretty crappy.
Sure contents, right?
Yeah, they did it.
Their contents business, their task is to earn the hug is what they rally around and it's like, oh my God, that's that feels good.
12:57
There's a certain feeling that they're chasing is company for their customer and for that, you know, I think An example of kind of what we're talking about is if you get people that really buy into that, then I'm sure they still have behavior issues.
13:13
They still have, non-compliance people that don't meet the standard and there's got to be corrective action, social accountability, there's no accountability issues and it sounds like they're playing from that Peterson Playbook, you know?
So I think one of the things that's a little interesting here and you've tied into it before with, you know, in terms of leading above the line, right?
13:32
That whole death Murr peace.
And in part of what they talked about like the five levels of motivation, right?
We get down deep right into that like not just intrinsic but then there's these next.
Here's like the super Elite tier and you get into play and you get into love.
13:49
And I think that at first glance when people listen to that word or hear it, like there's a bunch of knee-jerk responses to that, but I think what they're really kind of the heart of the matter is this idea of getting better at identifying Peoples Natural.
Wirings their skill sets.
14:05
Those things that when they do it, there's a level of motivation behind it that really has nothing to do with you saying that a girl out of boy.
It's their own motivation that you and I talked about that in our business like there's elements of what you and I do that we like and then there's elements right?
14:24
Just like with any business that have to be done in order for you to win in order for you to succeed but they're not necessarily at the top of my motivational chart, it's like, this has to be done.
And to a certain extent, you and I are just buying our time before.
It's like, hey, when it can this be delegated because we don't enjoy, it's not a highlight and I think.
14:41
Yeah.
And I think it's what we're discovering, it's even bigger than delegation.
It's like, as we started hiring additional consultants, and building out our team and our creative team and so forth, you start to see that thing that Peterson's talking about.
14:57
Like Scott for example, is one of the people were talking about like, he is intrinsically driven in ways that you and Or not, right.
It's almost like the idea of Delegation of getting this off my plate.
No, it's even.
It's even more powerful than that because really it's, it's giving it's giving somebody something that they want.
15:17
Yeah, you know.
Yeah.
It's like instead of hey, this is the job I need to do.
It's like, hey, you love this type of thing.
I'm gonna give you an opportunity to do that and make money at that, you know what I mean?
Oh, yeah, absolutely.
I keep me.
I'm laughing right now.
If you're not watching this on video, Go.
15:33
Because literally we make jokes about this, Scott was on our team for like two weeks.
And one of the first things that he did, why would our onboarding new clients Forum?
Was he wrote like this 90-page commercial complex large loss operations manual just to give you some insight as to the kinds of things that motivate him and how we're so excited when he came onto the team because it just like what you're saying.
15:57
Like that's his own initiative.
Like he saw the room and the freedom to do a thing.
He enjoyed And what was it, it was create this massive operations manual, you know?
That obviously something we share with our clients and our partner.
So anyways you're right like it's not just delegation and we have to remember that, right?
16:15
Because part of it is like I feel like I don't want to do that.
So I'm almost looking as like I want to drop that on somebody else and if we really are doing this correctly the idea would be you.
Offload something for you.
You don't enjoy.
And technically you're be giving it to that person that know that's that's actually some juice for them, you know?
16:34
Now, it's not all ghetto gumdrops and lollipops.
Like there's a reality that not every task is going to fit that bill and we can't we can't renegotiate roles and job titles to survey every Tom Dick and Harry's personality.
You know that we bring on the team but I think what happens and we see teams that are really skilled at this and I think you and I are learning to get more skilled in it.
16:56
Is that when you're building out your team come from the perspective of okay, if I have this role in this is this list of Tasks and responsibilities that this job title has.
And I want to be really clear about that.
This job title and roll has, then when you hire it's your job to do that in such a way that you tease out in some 10, they have that natural wiring.
17:21
Like they're a good fit for this, not just because they applied or because they've done it before, but because it actually the majority of it or a good chunk of it, right?
And maybe the maybe the Curious question is how much what's that?
Percentage like how much of the tasks right have to be in alignment with that for you to be kind of falling in the right direction?
17:39
But the hold anyways.
I'm Blobby.
The point is just like if you interview somebody and identify that skill set than natural wiring when you place them in that seat, there's not the necessary.
The need for carrots and sticks because a big chunk of what they do throughout the day is fun for them.
Yeah, you know, relatively speaking, Yeah, part of it is looking a level deeper when we're interviewing people.
18:03
Yeah.
You know, all of us have.
I mean most of us have learned or via YouTube, or via college or past, you know, mentors or whatever.
Like a behavioral interview style, right?
I most of us would agree.
That's that's probably most effective way to interview people.
You know, here how they've handled certain situations and in the past and so forth and examples and stories and whatnot.
18:23
But then there's also kind of listening between the lines.
So I was on an interview with one of our clients this morning with a potential sales person, And one of the things that I always am trying to listen for is, well, first of all, do they like sales right?
Is this something that they're intrinsically motivated, get out and stir things up and to create and to meet new people and all those things.
18:45
Yeah, but I'm also conscious of the fact that some of the best most successful career sales people.
I've met are not what we think of when we think of sales people like we have this charismatic.
Make sure what a sales person should look like sound.
19:02
Like and yet some of the most successful salespeople have made the most money in and move the needle.
The most, they just don't have often the Persona that you would expect him to have been super gregarious and like, whatever image you have of salespeople in your mind really attractive super high-energy dada.
19:22
And it was Eric u&x heavily on the very attractive part because you yourself have a sales background, I always better.
Ha ha.
Hey, I feel like the attractive in quotes party comes up a lot when you describe sales people and I just can't tell what part is, I just always resented us.
19:38
What really attracted people is like those lucky sons of bitches know every knows what I m.
I mean we all are drawn two Attractive people.
Let's face it you know.
So I'd never hurt somebody sales.
Yeah I do.
Yeah I certainly don't think eyes or should I do without ya with without the personality or character to match it though.
19:56
Right?
That's where the Were Us, lesser folks.
Can Right where we can make a deal.
That's right.
You know, it's interesting this person that we were interviewing was very green, very nervous, not a lot of background, but one of the things I was hearing was the character and like there's certain character traits that I think helps sales people be like, disproportionately effective.
20:22
Yeah, where they're really grounded in care for others, right?
When you combine a deeper like care and concern for others with an energy and drive to create down like that even if somebody has maybe a more flat personality, not as gregarious and out there.
20:44
But when there's this deep care, for others interests, and this hunger drive to learn to grow to be the best version of themselves.
You're hearing those kind of things like this guy was talking about how he felt like he was It would have been more intentional with Athletics and stuff in high school.
21:03
He had some talent but he didn't put the effort in and he discovered this, when he was 19 and started working out everyday, and develop those disciplines, and how?
Yes, and regret that, man.
I wish I could take this more silic.
Those kind of things.
Like you hear this, internal drive for growth.
You know, that's, that intrinsic level of stuff that, like, you can plug that in your business.
21:26
Yeah, and a lots gonna hang.
Yeah.
Right.
It you cast the right vision for somebody like that, and there's things that they're going to intrinsically.
Grab onto that are satisfying for them and you start building your company with people like that, right?
21:42
It's interesting.
As I as I say that a lot, identify those two traits, I think, oh my gosh, right.
Imagine if you could build a company of people that have a deep concern for others, and an internal drive to learn and grow if you just focused on finding those two, Traits.
22:00
Who cares, what those people look like?
Who cares?
How charismatic and fun and high-energy though will like what could you do with the team of people that have a deep concern for others?
And a desire to grow, and become better in their own Lanes, right?
22:16
Only whatever it is, you have the nerdy people, you can have the quiet people.
You can have the folks that are very linear thinking of creative, folks, all of it.
It's like boy, there's a lot you can do it just those two character traits, right?
All right.
Head heartbeats listeners want to stop here just a moment.
22:34
And thank our underwriting sponsor floodlight Consulting Group as all of, you know.
Right.
You know, Brandon and I this is our passion project at heart, boots his but it's also a way of more and more that are Consulting clients find us and in effect they interview US, write those even listen to show for a while.
22:52
You get to know who we are, right what we're about.
So if head heart boots is valuable to you.
One of the best things you can do is share it with your And so it's been incredible to watch just the audience grow and we still get text messages from many of you about shows that you really like, and impacted you.
23:08
So that's number one and please keep doing that.
Many of you have been huge, Advocates of the show.
We also just want to remind you to.
If you're a Restoration company owner, and you're interested in a partner in your growth, you want some help building out systems, developing your leadership teams helping set up the infrastructure for you to scale and grow into the company that you're trying to build.
23:30
That's what we do.
That's what we do is we come alongside Restoration company leaders, we help equip them and we help support them in that growth trajectory.
So, if you're looking for that, go to floodlight gr p.com, potentially, we could be a great match for each other.
Another way that we really do, serve our client base in our sphere of influence is through our Premier Partners.
23:49
We work really hard to vet.
Those folks that we believe bring a level of value to the industry, that it can really be leveraged in a way to have a sincere positive impact on your business.
We take That very seriously, the folks that we create those kind of ongoing Partnerships.
That's not a check, the box kind of scenario.
24:06
It's, it's we really see strategic alignment in the value that they bring.
We see value in the way that their leadership teams and their partners are developed.
And we've done very sincere work of ensuring that these folks that we introduce our clients and our sphere to can actually create vetted value.
24:21
So go check out floodlight grp.com forward, slash Premier / partners, and see if there's some folks on there that you can connect with and Developing some other resources to support your growth and your business.
It's interesting because I think, at least this is happening with me, so I don't want to place judgment or assumptions on other people listening, but I hear that my oversimplifying.
24:43
Well, I don't even know that you're oversimplifying, but I hear what you're saying I'm like, oh gosh, yeah.
That would be great.
Chris like that.
I build an entire company of people that are self-driven and intrinsically, you know, motivated.
However, you're not wrong.
I think the challenge, Maybe or where that Gap can be.
25:01
Is that our younger Workforce and, and I don't even mean that necessarily by age.
I just mean The newer Workforce maybe is a better way to maybe think about that.
There's just been a life skills development Gap.
25:17
I think part of it is and I mean, I don't want to, you know, freaking backseat drive this concept, but it's hard for me to understand why exactly.
But there's just a large group of people entering the workforce that in like broad life experience is lacking, it's just lacking.
25:35
Oh, yeah.
And so, when they come into a system like they don't Even know how to be a good employee and it's not necessarily a hit on them.
It's not necessarily a lack of drive or carrying.
I think it's interpreted that way often but I just think there's this element of our role as leaders and business owners is changing a little bit to the extent of how much energy or how much development or commitment.
26:01
We have to give to creating a system where we can help people identify what you're talking about.
So if we can design an interview process that allows How's us to unpack and see some of the raw clay, the raw potential, then, I think ultimately part of the, your job, then once they're on the team, is to begin to Steward that relationship and continue to point them and move them into the seats, that most aligned with how they will intrinsically.
26:27
Be motivated.
Now, hear me here.
We are such huge, proponent of, not negotiating, roles and titles by people's personalities.
That's not what I'm saying, because it'll be totally counter.
But what are you saying, development path?
If the development path and that doesn't have to be linear, meaning they if they come in as a tack, don't pigeonhole into them staying in that field operations role, you may accidentally have realized, right?
26:54
Like when you interviewed him, a lot of self countability.
A lot of motivation.
Just excitement to be on a team and get started great, and you start them in attack position.
Well, then part of your Cadence with a one-on-one is to begin to learn more in depth, knowledge about your person.
Now the interesting thing is, is that we have Julie Coleman coming up soon, right?
27:14
So this afternoon, yeah.
So we're going to talk to him this afternoon.
When you guys have the chance to hear, it will be several weeks at least a couple weeks out, I think.
But point is he's gonna get into some of this and he Joey's, he's gonna rock.
But my point is, is that we do have some stewarding responsibilities to help our people identify these things because I think many of them won't know.
27:35
They couldn't tell you.
Hey, I'm passionate about XYZ, I Of this thing.
This is what I'm designed to do.
It would make it a whole hell of a lot easier, right?
During the interview process.
But just think about it like us as business owners and key leaders, struggle to be able to put our finger on that all the time.
27:52
Let alone someone that maybe this is only their first or second go at some form of career or you know, formal job.
You know what I mean?
We had.
No, I hear you man.
I think sometimes.
So part of this whole equation is I think sometimes we're drawn either 12 people like ourselves.
28:09
We Talked about that as a problem.
You know, us is we're trying to recruit people are just like us and feel like us, what our role, right?
Whether your department leader or known or whatever, it's like, we are the successful prototype.
Yeah.
Hit.
OSHA is we want to hire more as a gosh?
Yeah.
More of me then everything will work out.
28:25
Yeah.
But I think to we have these archetypes in our head of what a successful person in a particular role looks like.
Yeah and I think and we've talked about this before to the value of it, after action review even on good jobs.
And sometimes we don't know why we're Right.
We make a lot of assumptions about why we're winning and I think maybe are the answers which word Peterson's pointing to is that the real thing that motivates success, and the success we're having our teams is much deeper, then the personality is and stuff that were normally looking for in interviews.
28:59
Yeah.
And I would say in my experience salespeople again, that's often been true.
Yeah.
You know, that we're looking for a certain kind of individual when they don't check all those.
Those boxes we're like, yeah, I'm not feeling it.
Yeah.
But we kind of walked right past some of these golden attributes.
29:19
The potentially have the power to drives much more success than the good.
Looks are the clever.
Quips and the, how whatever salesy, you know, person that they are here.
I want to challenge you a little bit here.
29:34
I don't know who has a challenge.
Let's give somebody some tactical ways.
Okay?
Tits, think about what we're talking about because it does seem a little too far like 45,000 feet.
Now, that's a great concept.
I get it, love it actually.
But what how do we find this stuff out like and I know your mind the question guy, right?
29:53
Like, we're sorry to disturb glad see other day.
I said, one of the things that I've learned actually, it was weird problem solving with a client the other day and I just, you know, one of the things I mentioned to them is like, I'm kind of putting on my Chris brain right now.
And I've got like three or four questions.
I need to ask you basically but So what are the questions?
30:10
Let's say in a one-on-one environment and if you've heard many of our shows the leading by walking around environment, what are some of the questions we can be asking people to unpack this?
Because again, let's make the Assumption.
Not everyone comes pre-loaded with the ability to communicate it, that we need to help them find it and figure it out right now only, so that we can lead them more optimally but so that they can get more excited about the moves that they'll be making in our organization.
30:34
You know, what are those questions to dig that out?
Yeah.
What really matters to you.
Like if we right now tomorrow as a company, we could afford to pay you a hundred thousand dollars a year to do whatever, really, really matters to you.
What would that be?
Hmm.
No, yeah, what if you could create the perfect role where you're spending all your time on what matters to you the most?
30:56
Yeah.
What would that look like?
Yeah you know as you ask those questions are you fearful that once you open that door or that you're opening some that you are wrong answer?
Yeah or just that once you start opening the Door to those kinds of questions.
Are you concerned that if you can't deliver almost immediately on this package that they communicate to you, that you're going to lose their motivation or lose their engagement?
31:22
I think, in the past I have been I think my natural instinct is yeah, to be afraid of their answer because if it doesn't somehow aligned with where I'm going or what we're trying to do.
Yeah, or a robot or what's happening?
Yeah.
Or what were those company needs right now?
Yeah.
31:37
That that's going to become a negative for them.
Verbalize that and not to have it somehow for us not to somehow answer that desire.
And I've also seen we've talked about Joey, you know, the whole media director thing that we created our last company.
31:55
Yeah.
Like, you know, that kind of question is what led to us having a full-time videographer and her team that really became a big differentiator for our brand, he known our local market and and was super satisfying, you do for him.
An amazing Roll and we couldn't do it immediately.
32:11
Yeah, it's true.
But so what are you do to offset that?
You think oftentimes, there's a way to leverage that desire.
In the short term and small ways to give them an outlet for that.
I think what it is, is it forces us as Leaders to actually cultivate a relationship with our people.
32:32
And what do you do in relationship, right?
Relationships are reciprocal.
It's like, hey, gosh, if that's where you really want ahead.
Here's what I need from you now, but here's what I could also do for you.
Now, you know, it's like, I think you can engage in that negotiation of, that's really amazing that you're Passionate about that.
32:50
How do you think we could fold that into the current role we have you in?
Yeah.
Because I can't like I need you, I need you doing this thing also.
Yeah.
But what do you think would be a step towards that direction that we could equip you with?
How could we allow you to nurture that desire while still having you be a rock star in this current role?
33:11
Yeah.
Now I think that's good line of questions, right?
I think when I hear you, say that there's two things that are happening.
One is you're keeping that door open meaning?
I don't ask you that.
So that when you did provide the answer to, there was no substance to it and though you're being realistic about, let's be clear about what I mean here in about what this looks like for us to partner and head this Direction together.
33:33
Yeah.
I think there's some key elements there.
You know, it's interesting.
I think an example might be, I'm just thinking about a couple of the interviews we've had over the last couple days.
So some of the, you know, and by the way, if you don't know this, please Brad word to your network to people in your sphere.
If there's a business, Either somebody from our industry, with an industry background that you respect, you admire, you really respect the way they behave, the way they've carried themselves, the successes that they've achieved.
34:00
Please Point them in our direction.
We are actively looking to add a team member, another senior consultant to our staff.
That being said, we're we fortunate, we've had some really rad interviews over the last couple days.
I feel so honored that this caliber of people want to potentially be a part of our team.
34:17
So, anyway, we're having a discussion with somebody in one of the things that kind of came out on their own accord.
And I don't think it really aligned necessarily with the question we asked, they just talked about how much they actually like the teaching training aspect.
And, for those of you that have heard us talk about this before, there's a very big difference between coaching Consulting and training.
34:38
Like, there's three different activities and behaviors and there's different skill sets that you deploy in each of those.
But anyways, my point was, is that they talked very openly about their excitement around training and teaching, And of course, we're listening for that because you and I both know that we need those folks on our team because part of what we want to continue to challenge ourselves to do is create really high-end content and curriculum for our people, for a client.
35:03
And so we heard that and then I immediately my brain start strategizing, okay?
Well, if we bring them on, this is how we could deploy that.
This is how we would partner with them, right?
For them to stay in that lane as often as possible.
But then how do we segue or communicate where these other expectations?
35:19
Stations are that they, you know, and I think part of what you and I do in that process to is, were asking questions to identify?
Are we going to ask you to be outside of that lean too much?
That if we are, then you and I have a hard decision to make because essentially we can't give them what they ultimately would want, right?
35:35
Or could be successful and in this particular case I think we can but you know what I'm saying?
Yeah I think it's just a new way of thinking about our business and a lot of conversation is happening within all employers haters, right?
I love how do we connect with this new generation because they see things differently, they experience things differently, they want different things for themselves, right?
35:56
You know what, I think it at some of the Bedrock of that is that they've watched their parents grandparents great-grandparents.
Do this whole nose to the grindstone thing for 30 years and then have fun as industrial early, ords?
Yeah, suffer silently.
Basically, lay down your own life for your paper, your kids college and then by the nice RV for your spouse.
36:18
And Then go enjoy yourselves in your golden years or what are supposed to be golden years?
And then we watch them all get diabetes and heart disease and and struggle to walk around yet as they've spent themselves on their career.
Not necessarily being rewarded.
From that experience, may be financially to a certain extent.
36:35
Sure, yeah.
But I think there's that a lot of the upcoming Generations.
Like, no, no, none of us are guaranteed.
Those Golden Years.
They've seen that play out.
Yeah.
None of us are guaranteed to enjoy it or even have the money at the end of it.
Now, It crashes and all this kind of craziness, that they've seen.
36:51
And so, I think that's part of it is, how do I create a life in conjunction with my work?
And then, I think, also, we were just talking with well and one of our workshops how this generation is so accustomed to these points of affirmation.
37:08
Yeah.
All the time constantly, I made this post about this thing.
I put this picture out.
I got, you know, 25 likes for my friends.
I got 14 comments on that thing.
There's the He's points of affirmation and feedback that they're accustomed to getting all the Tyla time at every day and then they go into a work environment or were like just do the job.
37:29
Yeah.
Like do a good job and you'll be you know, eligible to earn your bonus in your you know, annual pay raise and just do what we hired you to do.
Why do you need all the Pat's on the back?
You know, we don't say that out loud because we kind of understand that but I think we just haven't, we haven't learned is Here's how to lead this new generation.
37:51
Yeah, we were accustomed to Leading people that just knew they had to put their time in.
Yeah.
And it's interesting because if you think about it from a social media perspective, right?
Wrong or indifferent sir.
It's kind of irrelevant, right?
It just is right.
Those elements that just are, I think from a social media world or perspective, I think that we need to also come to grips with the fact that they are hearing on a consistent Cadence that they do not have to succumb and make sacrifices just too.
38:19
Do what they think the community or culture says they should do.
Even though if we're, If we're honest about it, they're just doing some other version of it, but think about that from a social media perspective, they're hearing constantly, do you?
You do you, you be, you find what your passion about?
38:36
There's a way to make money of way to thrive.
There's a group, a community, a something that aligns with who you are, just you being you, right?
So they're hearing that, let's call it 23 out of the 24.
He four hours a day now and then they come into your institution and really hear none of that they here.
38:54
Just do as I say, do what you're told do with the job title says, write like this very counter and so I think one of the realities that we're dealing with is leaders is guys, we have to learn how to meet them like you can't act as if you're going to build an organization.
39:10
That's so counterculture.
That that people somehow are going to just switch teams.
Like they're not going to make That they're not going to bridge that Gap.
We've got to do something in the way that we're teaching and communicating with our people that does align with that message because it's a powerful message, right?
39:28
You know, we got to be careful of time, but I was just thinking about we had a really cool discussion yesterday just totally friend to friend, right industry, friends.
We were talking to Marc Springer and me and I know a lot, probably, a lot of our listeners have seen him on other podcasts or maybe, you know, had some exchange with him as part of his leadership with riaa and things like that.
39:48
I was Blown Away by the caliber of individual that I felt like he he portrayed, right?
I just there was just so much humility.
So much calm demeanor consistent, just very confident, but in all the right ways, not that weird, you know, ego-driven way.
40:06
Anyways point being is he was talking about the early years, right?
Anybody?
That knows anything about Fleet like, holy crud.
Like, if they are jamming, right?
Part of a massive.
Immune a movement, they are growing Leaps and Bounds dumb numbers.
I won't talk about those.
40:22
That's for Mark's words, but the reality of it is is that even where they started before they became the foundation of an image, a platform, they were winning and they were winning at a very high level.
And in my book, what I've seen often is that that happens, because of, who's at the helm, I am the team.
40:41
They built tournament entitle.
It like, when we were asking him questions, one of the first areas, he went was his excitement.
This is the key.
His excitement about his role in building the team building a team.
And as you said it like four times more competition, building teams and executing building teams and executing, that was his key.
41:02
That is thing, literally.
So it's like I hear that and I go, okay, well, I know where his juice is, right?
I know what Lane he wants to be in and he clearly has identified that.
And in the he communicated to you, that some of the stuff he's had to do over the last four, five, six years as part of this, this Atta G is, it's taking him sometimes out of that lane and he's talked about the toll of that.
41:24
Like it has an emotional toll physical toll on you.
Anyways, point being it's like, okay again we're not going to go into numbers.
Listen, this enough, he does fantastically successful.
Yeah, level right levels.
That most of us won't comprehend in the reality of it is is because he found the lane that he was passionate about that.
41:42
He was intrinsically driven by and he stayed in that lane and he built a team around him so that he could continue.
To be in that lane and focus on that thing and you can see the results.
And so I think part of what, I guess I'm going with that is you guys even as Leaders, we're not going to be all things to all people doesn't even matter.
42:01
If you're the owner, like, you're just not going to be all things.
You may very well not be the team Builder, that might not be the thing.
That's your sweet spot.
Do I suggest heavily that you've got ground to gain there and you need to continue to stretch and grow yourself?
42:16
Absolutely 100% And Though, look for that partner that team member that leader that you can rubbing in it, that loves it.
Maybe that's that extra layer.
That you bring into the team, don't shortchange, what you could possibly do, because something falls out of your natural wiring or your natural skill set, right?
42:36
Don't throw a hand grenade in the whole system.
Anyways, we got a little wordy there, but you have like, maybe just a thought or two to kind of help land the plane and draw this curtain, man.
Yeah, well, I just think coming back to the original Topic of turnover.
It's so hard to get Talent.
42:53
It's so painful to watch them.
Go walk out the door and of course this isn't just with Millennials generation next.
Whatever the Kern word is for the young people coming into our businesses, it's across the board.
Yeah.
The energy that the younger generation employees is bring to the business.
43:11
It's starting to, you know, distribute across all of our employees.
Because I think there's something intrinsic, At all of us have felt throughout our careers.
There's a desire for meaning.
There's a desire for what we're doing every day to be satisfying.
43:27
I think even those of us who are in our 40s.
Like, we see, we understand at some level.
Yeah.
Like, we understand you, I'm not going to grind my face off for 30 years and not.
Maybe not even make it.
Maybe sacrifice my marriage or the quality of my family relationships to get ahead in my career and, and all that like we understand.
43:49
And I think what's pushing the younger people to say?
No, no, I'm not playing that game.
Yeah.
And at the same time, we just haven't quite figured out how to lead in that environment.
I think, what we're talking about here in.
Maybe we are talking and idealistic terms in Jordan Peterson's laying out.
44:05
This is, this is the Target and we're never going to fully reach it, but you can March toward.
Yeah.
It's like, okay, how can we start to tune our minds to get curious about what people's underlying?
Ocean is what are they want?
44:21
Because I think it's possible that somebody can want something that doesn't automatically make us think, you know, mitigation technician.
Yeah but it can still feed that like we can create a role in an environment for them that feeds that thing they're looking for.
44:39
You know, we were talking about how just this for you and I and in there's different versions of this, we all tell ourselves a little bit different story.
But for me, the Hero part of our business Is very satisfying to me.
Yeah, you know TV now is a consultant that I get to be a part of that.
We're we're saving the day we're helping people turn a corner from a negative experience to pause while like I love that role but we all love it, maybe for different reasons and it's like learning how to tell a better story about what our people are signing up for finding out.
45:13
What is it that they care about what is Meaningful to the people were kind and getting into that car.
Conversation in interviews.
And then I think the other thing too, that we just barely touched on, and I think we should come back to is affirming, right?
Like, you know, I think if leaders in previous generations, had been better at spotting the good things that people are doing better at praising the winds better at praising alignment to the common Mission and objectives and vision.
45:42
I think they would have been even more productive than past Generations.
Were I think we're learning that in our our younger employees.
These are saying I want affirmation.
I don't care if you think it's right or wrong.
I don't care if you think I'm high maintenance.
Yeah.
This is how I've grown up.
45:57
This is what I've grown to expect and I want I want to be told when I'm doing a good job.
Yeah.
I want to be told when I make an impact, I want to be told when you like me when you like something, I did.
Yep.
And so I think we can choose to be annoyed by it or we can choose to play a better game.
46:14
Yeah, played when right play it away, you know.
It's I and I just love that analogy to is Are used to emojis their yes to the likes.
They're used to the thumbs up.
There used to this stuff is like how do we give them more of that because it clearly drives Behavior shit.
How often are our people and us now looking at our phones to see how many people like that Instagram, post that we put up or that LinkedIn post that we created that the article we share that video.
46:40
We'd like we all do it now, you know?
Yeah.
So how do we build that into the we were leading?
How do we touch people at a deeper level?
That makes them want to commit to us and be loyal to the vision and the mission that were on that.
46:56
I think it requires so little bit different Behavior.
Now, you know, that I agree.
Okay.
Wow.
Our Gang.
Those get one was fun.
You know, if this stuff has value just share it, please.
Yeah, yeah, please, I mean, that to that stick, that's the currency, right?
The were all, like, share it.
47:13
Share it out.
We post obviously every Tuesday on LinkedIn new episodes.
Just repost Repost to your audience and certainly the other way you can thank us follow.
Yeah.
And, and also, just pay attention to our sponsor reads, we only bring on sponsors that we think could level up your business and we're always thinking about the Murad audience or these sponsors.
47:34
That can be a needle, mover help you become more efficient, help you get more organic traffic to your you know Sy get more get a calls like is their broad appeal for the sponsors we bring on.
That's always one of our primary questions islet.
And so yeah, if you have a need, use our sponsors, you know, check out lift.
47:52
If I go subscribe to see in our write, another one coming bow.
We got another one coming or really excited about a little surprise launch with them letter.
Yes, indeed.
All right, gang tiger hanging out with us, okay?
Later All right, everybody, he thinks for joining us for another episode of head heart and boots.
48:10
And if you're joined the show, he loved this episode.
Please, hit follow formerly known as subscribe.
Write us a review or share this episode with a friend, share it on LinkedIn.
Share it, via text, whatever.
It all helps.
Thanks for listening.
All right, everybody, he thinks for joining us for another episode of head heart and boots.
And if you're joined the show, he loved this episode.
Please, hit follow formerly known as subscribe.
Write us a review or share this episode with a friend, share it on LinkedIn.
Share it, via text, whatever.
It all helps.
Thanks for listening.