0:00
Hey, how's it going?
Chris, Christopher, did you?
All right we'll let you have this one and I'm not going to get pissed off but who are we hanging out with today?
Man is like a intro take over?
Yeah blindsided so we have yes good guests today.
0:17
Interesting fellow old-school.
Punk rocker.
Yeah.
Old-school skater.
Yeah, super fun.
So been Ricky already.
All right with Ironclad.
Yes.
Ironclad marketing.
So you And I both been kind of wrestling and been fairly vocal about the fact that we just feel like SEO, PPC, PPL is the Black Box nobody's got legitimate answers.
0:40
Everybody's selling it.
Nobody knows what they're buying man and that everybody's selling it.
Nobody knows what the hell they're buying.
But you know what, honestly, our conversation with Ben they got tactical.
I felt like we walked away with some actual measurable tangible action items that businesses can take action on right now.
0:57
Even some pretty ones, that'll move the needle hundred percent.
Right.
We dig into, I don't want to give any away but we dig into some elements that you could affect in your business right now.
No cost little bit of time little bit of focus and just in general I just I really liked our time with him so far.
We've met with him a couple times.
1:13
Since learning more about the business, how he operates, how his team operates good blue-collar background, the guy's been in the trades.
He's been in the business for a while and then he just he made a switch and he's got a team that he's been developing that focuses in on making us sell more and Legitimately he's he's having success in this kind of digital front and so I'm excited to get him on the show and have folks, listen to some of the things he talks about because I feel like it'll be a little bit more empowered.
1:42
Yeah.
I feel like people have a kind of a stronger Foundation of what it is that they need.
If they can't do it themselves and just really walk away with something tangible.
So then Richie already of Ironclad restoration marketing.
Let's do it.
Here we go.
All right.
Welcome Back To The Head heart and Boots podcast.
2:06
I'm Chris and I'm Brandon.
Join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses we leave the of this industry.
Ben thank you Sarah for joining us, my man, appreciate you.
What's up guys?
2:22
Thanks for having me on excited.
Okay, I got to get right into it.
So the first thing I'm seeing in and your head is a really beautifully colored skateboard hanging on the wall.
What's going on back there?
Yeah, that's what I use the ride to work to actually a hoverboard.
I got from Back to the Future from our.
2:37
I know I saw the skateboards pretty cool.
It's got an interesting story, so very close friend of mine.
I grew up with it, was a couple tattoo shops down here in Florida.
Previously, I was the president of a non-profit.
So one of the things we did is we had an event at his shop.
It was an art event and some of the artists, you know, decorated skateboard, some did ukuleles, and we all got to bid or when.
2:57
Is right.
But the lucky guy to win the skateboard deck, which is really cool.
So unfortunately I can't ride it to work unless they do come up with a hoverboard technology.
Yeah, that's a story other.
I'm proud to have it hanging in here.
Do we raise money for a good cause and you know, it's actually for a good friend of mine.
I get to display expertise, I love it, I love it.
3:13
You and I were kind of shooting the breeze a little bit so your background I was mentioning that I'm kind of an ALT kid.
I came up in the 90s so you know Seattle grunge scene was was the thing for me.
But you came up in the punk and The hardcore scene Seen it sounded like yeah yeah you know when we first were talking before I moved around quite a bit you know, we move bounce around on the East Coast from Maine to South Carolina to Florida, to Jersey when I ended up in Florida for the last time, I think ya got involved in a punk and hardcore scene which obviously a lot of my friends you know, I'm an old man now but a lot of my friends are skateboarding and currently do I.
3:47
Like I said before I stay away from it because you know, I don't like skinning my knees taking showers after a couple skinned knees or road.
Rash isn't my favorite thing to do in the world.
So I tend to err Side of caution, stay off the Wheeled stuff unless I can control it with a break and have airbags in case I fall.
4:02
How are your ankles?
Are swollen and sore sometimes they're yeah, you're okay.
But you know what?
They could be worse if I was actually riding skateboards to work, I probably have way worse.
That'd be way.
My friends.
They were skaters back in the day their ankles never recovered.
4:18
You know it's like broken ankles.
Multiple sprains yeah.
All of my skater friends walk funny in their 40s you know tool.
That's right.
Yeah try to stay.
A away from things that are going to hurt me and cause me any more pain than just regular aging because I'm hurt myself a lot in my life being Reckless and you know I've got enough going on.
4:36
It's not enough aspirin in the world to her.
Help my back.
If I fell on one of these things right now.
Yeah we certainly reach a certain age where we got to be far more considerate about what happens tomorrow on our decision versus what happens right now.
Exactly.
So listen, we have been fairly vocal with the community and with our office that we feel like, gosh, anytime we start talking about SEO, In PPC and digital marketing, it just seems so vague.
5:02
It seems difficult to wrap our arms around it in a way where we can actually give people a sense of clarity and direction.
We had a great conversation with you a couple weeks back, and we just felt like, hey, let's let's just kind of focus on almost one area.
5:19
But like, you've alluded to and you're going to cover with us today.
Is there not in silos.
There's kind of this formula that all needs to be Working with each other but but you had some some clarity around one of these things that it's becoming really, really important.
5:36
And from what we heard or saw it seem like, hey, this is this might be an achievable tear for people to focus on first regardless of businesses, our budget, right?
Yeah, right.
Yeah.
So, anyways, we want to go into that.
And for those of you that will end up watching this or listening to this on YouTube, you're going to do some screen shares with us.
5:55
You're going to get into some of the tactics for.
Of you listening, you're going to get it by just the way that been communicates.
He's a great communicator, a super clear and concise and I think you'll have plenty of takeaways but yeah, if you get a chance to watch this on YouTube when it's released do that because I think you'll get another layer of juice but Google my business profile.
6:13
Is that what it's called?
Because I know do gosh you got oh my God, call it that anymore.
Don't like oh God what is this?
1995 nordyke.
Yeah no listen it's had like 75 different names.
I think in the last four months.
No it's right now.
It's the it's the Channel formerly known as Google, my business Google Plus Google Places Google, whatever you want to call it last November.
6:33
It's been about a year now.
We're finally unwrapping all the fall the changes but there was a major algorithm update and one of those parts of that update was changing the name again to Google business profile.
Okay.
I got to tell you that we're discussing the GBP.
Okay.
All right.
6:49
Yeah, you know me, okay.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, we're writing a song about it right now.
Hopefully you guys are some photos.
Good graces.
And we get a little bit better results.
Wait in our favor, right?
Right right.
Well, dude, where do you want to go first, man?
All right, well, let's address the first thing you guys talked about because this is something full disclosure.
7:08
So, my background is in construction, right?
I've done a lot of different things in my life.
I've worked in the restaurant industry.
My family owned restaurants when I was a kid, I've worked labor for a lot.
When I was in high school, you know, I came from a background in have a lot of money so if I wanted to have something I worked for it, right, since I was 13 years old, I had some sort of job using my hands.
7:27
And my brain to work.
So I have a construction background specifically site development.
I own a company down here and do major water sewer drainage so it's not exactly like the restoration industry but I kind of understand and what we see a lot again, so I own an agency.
Just give you back it up even more and we're calling Ironclad restoration marketing.
7:44
So we're marketing agency digital marketing agency to specifically concentrates in the Restoration World.
All right, so we're restoration specific.
So, one of the things that I see and I hate at the same time and it's a really big hill to His most agencies and most people and sailed and it's not even a malicious thing.
8:03
They Bank on the ambiguity of SEO and of digital marketing, you know, what does it really mean?
And when you break it down to the fundamentals, it's really not that complicated.
And people tend to try to keep things complicated because keeps them busy and it keeps you guessing, right?
8:18
But if you want real tangible results, you really should.
As a business owner, kind of understand, you know, the basics of it.
Elise and I have a book that, you know, I published a second book and it kind of breaks it down.
Down in a very simple way that I had to do it to understand, starting the agency, and being a newbie in a sense, and digital marketing, and teaching myself, everything from web development SEO to pay per click to the Google business profile stuff and how all that stuff works together to ultimately, get you guys leads and get the industry leads and get the phone ringing, which is what everybody needs to do.
8:47
So it is an ambiguous service and it's a nasty three-letter word to most people because reality is most guys that have accompany, they've been in business for a few years, they made it over that two-year, hump where they're not out of Business.
You know they didn't give up.
They've worked with an agency or they've worked with a freelancer that's going to do SEO for them.
9:03
And you know the business owner is concentrating on what they're good at restoring property following up with leads getting the sales in dealing with the adjusters, all the other things, and they're trusting somebody to do a service that they don't understand what so ever.
So you're opening the door to things, not being done, maybe the right way, which happens in 99% of the cases.
9:25
Now, I don't want to lump it all into the industry of agency.
Right.
Then there's a lot of agencies out there that prey on the ambiguity, but a lot of times, the problem is the business owner themselves.
Just not understanding what it is that they're looking for.
They have mismanaged expectations, no matter what you tell them, you could say, hey, it's gonna take you three years to get this keyword to page one after a month, they are wondering why that keyword hasn't moved, right?
9:45
So business owners are really feel should be empowering themselves with this knowledge and the data to understand what they're buying or they shouldn't be wasting their money at all.
So part of what my book does and part of what I do with, you know, everything we do as far as Ironclad restoration Rings concern is we try to provide as much value as possible in order to kind of let these people overcome this.
10:03
I love it.
Okay, so just a quick, reminder to folks before we get going, you pay attention, maybe take some notes, we are going to be giving some books out but you're gonna have to work for it and have to remember what the heck we talked about so that you can answer a few questions to get those books.
10:20
There it is.
Yeah, bullshit guys, listen, full disclosure just to put it out.
There Y is CO2, is a little ambiguous last year.
I think there was 4600 algorithm updates 4,600 in a single year.
Only a few major ones, but a lot of little tweaks.
10:37
And I guess, you know, people like myself, pull our hair out or clamoring, trying to figure this out, but it's really important to keep your fingers on the pulse of this stuff because of that, most of the updates, don't translate to hurting you.
Everything is designed to make the user experience, better on Google.
So the book is going to have some bullshit in, right?
10:54
So I publish this thing, I think in January of twenty 20, Is the second edition of the book because I publish one of the previous January and there was some bullshit in it.
You know, they change I pop I think the day I published it as one day I realized I paid it was a major name change and we are I had to rewrite like two chapters of it and since then there's been quite a few algorithm updates.
11:13
So we're working on addition three, I'm probably going to change the name a little bit to kind of keep me from having to write too many books but it was going to say you'd be putting one out every year.
Yeah, no.
I mean I really should be just because of how many things that you know how much how fast things change Change in this landscape.
11:28
But yeah.
So there's little BS little disclaimer there, but overall, this is a really good.
The books are really good guideline in very simple terms, how to do this stuff yourself.
And if not doing it yourself, at least be educated enough to be dangerous to know what you're buying when you hire an agency to do, SEO, or pay-per-click, or anything like that.
11:46
There's nowhere to hide, once you kind of understand the stuff, and it's really quite simple.
Well, dude, let's get into this GBP.
Start us there with.
All right, this is the low-hanging fruit, right?
I think you might have kind of said that this is something everybody.
Should be on top of.
Yeah, because it's there's virtually no cost for us to at least have this box checked?
12:03
Yeah, absolutely.
So and that's that's perfectly said because when it comes to SEO, my book will show you and give you some of the tools to be able to do it yourself.
But the reality is search engine optimization and pay-per-click are such highly specialized, you know, types of service that you would have to either, you know, completely put your business on, pause to learn this stuff to do it.
12:25
Effectively to do it really affected in Some Basics that you can do just by reading and youtubing.
And listen, I love the DIY guys, I love guys that learn to the stuff on their own, but the reality is like, if you wanted to bring this in a house, you're going to need to spend a lot of money on a lot of salaries that don't only include a search engine optimization specialist, but include a Content writer and, including somebody, that knows web development to work on conversion rates because we talked before, it's not about the traffic to your website.
12:49
You're not converting that traffic, then it's just a waste of time, Google business profile formerly Google, my business Google Plus Google Places, whatever you want to call it, whatever you.
Still call it.
I'm okay with is a really I don't want to say easy but it's a much more manageable and tangible channel that you can concentrate on for your business.
13:06
So if you're not doing anything, this is a great way for you.
If you're just starting out, you don't have the budget to hire a marketing agency to kind of get yourself, some sort of digital exposure, utilizing Google, and it's free.
Okay, there is a lot of nerdy, technical stuff beyond that, you know, obviously there's levels to running this stuff just like SEO or websites but the basics of it.
13:26
I mean, if you Are willing to put in the work.
It's a really easy way for you to get some leads but we'll take a step back.
If you don't know your Google business profile is directly correlated with your Maps rankings.
All right, so hey we're in the service-based industry, right?
You're helping people to have property damage your Maps rankings.
13:43
Not only are they the first thing you see on a mobile device but that's where most people are going to look first, right?
Shows the reviews right there.
It shows, you know, they can get you out, you know, just working on your Google business profile properly will get you those Maps.
Placements rankings especially in your local.
Area.
And it's really hard to gain the system.
13:59
It used to be easy.
So all these algorithm updates that Google puts out, are there to enhance user experience, but more.
So to make sure that your competition is not doing anything black hat.
They're not trying to game the system and if you do, we will lay the smack down pretty easily.
If and a lot of people lately, the last couple years have been getting their profile suspended, whether it's their fault or not, Google's allowing their AI, they're really being strict on everything from your service area to your proximity to where your business is, how you conduct Business and you're getting shut down.
14:29
So it's good for the guys that are doing it, right, right.
And the guys that are not doing it right, they're either going to adapt or die and ultimately, it's better for the audience, right?
It's better for those using those search criteria and trying to find help and support their community.
So what do you think, should we do some screen share and start working through a decent profile so that the listeners can get an idea of what you're talking about?
14:51
Exactly sure what I'm going to do first is I'm going to show you one of our clients that we've been managing their Google business profile.
Since Beginning when I say, I want to be very clear on since the beginning, because in the past, your Google business profile has always been important, right?
You just a place where you get reviews people are going to be able to leave you a good review and but that typically was what only what people did right they profile and that was it.
15:12
They just got reviews when they could concentrate on SEO getting by and leads or getting pay-per-click and they didn't really think about it.
So this latest algorithm update has put a heavy ranking Factor on your Google business, profile outside of all the new constraints they're putting on the profile and they've come.
Completely married your Google business profile, with your organic rankings from what we found.
15:33
So, where your Google business profile directly correlated with maps.
Well, now we're fighting for relations with you were organic rankings, which are in effect of SEO.
So if you have an SEO agency, you really should be listening to this.
Because if they're not managing your Google business profile or you're not properly, you're missing out on a lot of opportunities in your place like watering down the gasoline in your tank, right?
15:52
You're spending a bunch of money on SEO, but if you missing this little element, your kind of pissing it away.
Yeah, makes sense.
I'll show you a nice optimize profile, you know, we could do some web searches if you want, but if you guys are ready to screenshot, I'll show you one of our clients.
I'll show you the basics because now in the last few weeks, Google's change it again, so you don't have the same dashboard anymore.
16:10
You're actually managing on.
This is Google's listening switch back to the to the old dashboard because this is just terrible anyways, but they change it.
So it's, it's navigatable, it's easy to do and then obviously a lot of listeners won't be pulling this up in YouTube and so maybe just give us some descriptors on what it is exactly that we're looking at here.
16:31
Alright.
So for the people that aren't watching and you know what the cool thing is, I know I talk fast and I bounced around a lot inside.
My brain is like those old school Lottery machines where they fly all the ping-pongs of balls up in the air.
And you gotta try to catch a few of em dude.
Bear with me.
I get really excited about this stuff.
It's just my nature.
I love helping people out.
16:47
So if you are watching on YouTube, you can go to YouTube settings and you can cut the speed down to like half and just a little slower down.
Normal rate is still be able to catch up so, Were one of your potential customers, those a search on Google, they're going to see results, basically going to have a couple pay-per-click areas and I think two or three, depending on mobile or desktop, then you're going to have your Maps rankings.
17:07
We'll just do one real quick water damage and then we'll do Fuquay Varina.
I think that's how you pronounce it.
Sorry if anybody's in North Carolina and I'm ordering this name, but just want to show you what it what a Maps results looked like so.
And as I mentioned, they have, wow.
They have for add spaces now, last year, they only had two.
17:25
So now Google is taking up a little bit more of that.
Homepage that valuable real estate with more ads.
Okay, then what you're going to see here and if you're on mobile, this is much more prominent.
I think it's above the fold and when I'll mention above the fold a couple times, all that means is the first thing you see on your screen without having to scroll.
17:41
All right?
So on a mobile device, you're going to see the maps rankings and what they're going to do is they're this new algorithm used to be able to gain the system and get a lot of traction in areas you didn't even exist.
They were just based off your service area, but Google went and put a little more weight on the proximity.
So even though, Is a client of mine.
17:58
There are third in a map rankings which is great.
There are no Maps pack the 3-pack that's like the Holy Grail.
Google wants you to be close.
So if I if I typed it even though they're technically located at a rally, there are a little bit of the outskirts there in between Fuquay Varina and rally kind of on this road and so when you search rally, they're not going to be on the first page of the maps anymore.
18:18
Google's going to show you proximity to where you are.
Right?
So if you happen to be on the road driving between Rally or south of rally, APR is going to pop up first, no matter what.
So you're going to get.
These results like this on a Maps ranking.
This is directly correlated each one of these results.
Right here are Google business profile, right?
And then you have the organic rankings, this is the Evergreen area that SEO aims to get you ranked on.
18:39
Okay?
So let's say we clicked on a PR, you're going to get their Google business profile.
Pop up, you know, everything about their business from the reviews, their location, they don't do online estimates.
You have to call a click to call phone number their hours, their review section, and then they have a really cool feature that they release a little while ago called.
18:57
Sing.
So it's very similar to social media and really puts, yeah, really cool stuff you can do with this posting in terms of your keyword rankings and keywords and linking it with your website will go over that a little bit and then it also gives you some other things that people search for and it pops up their website and everything.
19:12
That's relative to that.
So, as a business owner, it goes without saying is you should have a Google business profile because if a PR did not, they want to show up in a mouse rankings.
Right?
And they now, they would have a really hard time appearing in the organic rankings as well.
Well, because there it just makes sense.
19:29
Google is coupling them together.
Why separated?
So what you're going to find is if you do have a Google business profile already set up, then this is what you're going to see.
Now, when you go to Google doc business.com, this is the back end manager of your Google business profile and like, literally three weeks ago, this was completely different.
19:45
It was way more intuitive and easy to use, but the basics are here and we'll go through it.
So you have an ability to do everything with your profile right here from this point.
And so, when we talk about an optimized, Google business profile, You want to make sure that you have your business name.
20:01
And now Google wants the exact business name that is on like your Articles of Incorporation like you're because you're going to have to show this stuff.
Probably at one point a COI from a job or something that just shows your real legitimate legal business name.
Then your business category, obviously there are water damage, restoration service, you're able to add as many of these business categories as you want.
20:20
Go right ahead just make sure your main three if its water fire mold.
Those are the ones that are more prominent and then you can dive into those as subcategories.
As well part of those like you can just type it in.
Oh yeah there you go.
A lot of them are pre-built actually two years ago.
Google didn't even have a mold remediation Service as a service like you had to really you had to really get creative with how you listed at but now they've allowed you to add your own categories and things like that.
20:43
So quick question, one thing I see here is opening date a PR has that listed blank.
Is there some strategy there?
Like if you're a young company should you leave it blank?
If you've been in business for two years, does that somehow rank you higher or give you know, not not at all.
You know, I'll say maybe, but I have not seen anything that affects that, that's why.
21:01
It's not really, it's great.
I don't even know how long that's been there.
Honestly, it seems like every time I open this up, there's a different little area to your dad.
They have some other areas like Ada accessible for businesses.
Or you know, even if it's a woman-owned business or veteran-owned business, they have some areas like that, and by all means conversion wise, if you're a veteran, God bless you, for your service, you should be adding that very prominently on your Google business and your website.
21:23
You know, then you have the basics, your contact information, your description phone number, and a really cool thing about your Google Business profiles.
Google provides free call tracking.
So, not only do you have all this information and somebody get ahold of you but if you go into your dashboard, Google will provide you a breakdown of all the calls that came in to your business.
21:39
What the phone numbers were and if they were answered or not, that's awesome.
The other thing I notice is you were back out on the on the main profile is.
It sounds like there's a live chat function.
Yes, yeah, so that's another really cool feature that Google added messages.
So you actually have to enable that.
So when you're if you haven't done this yet there's an area in your website.
21:56
I'm sure.
This is it in your Google business profile.
We can turn on chat.
The thing I will say and this goes a lot of people use live chat on our website.
I'm all about it.
The thing I will say is when it comes to leads and conversions, if you have live chat enabled, or if you have a live chat on your website, you have to have somebody managing it.
22:14
The last thing you want is giving people 15 different ways to get in touch with you.
But really the only way you're responding as a phone call, if all you can handle is answering the phone or returning messages, that don't do any of that other stuff until you have the For structure in place.
Okay?
Live Chat is amazing.
22:29
I wish every one of my clients could have that on their website that the reality is not everybody's in the same situation with their business.
So some people have somebody in the office.
That's there. 24/7, that's going to get those messages and follow up with them right away.
But for the most part, it's much easier to use a phone.
So I always tend to lean towards the path of least resistance with this stuff because if you throw too many things at a business, especially when they're not ready for it, it's like drinking out of a fire hose and you know, they're never going to do anything.
22:55
Right?
Right there.
And have all this these Some stuff they have to manage for that for general purposes.
You know, you need a profile that's that's built out and optimize and when I say optimize it's the little things we just mentioned your services, your phone number is correct.
You need the exact address that's on your business location, right?
23:12
And keep in mind you verify this, right?
So if you've ever set up a Google business profile, Google send you a postcard, Google does not accept PO Boxes, Google does not accept UPS Store boxes either, okay, so if you don't have an address, Google does provide a way to say Or a service-based business, and you don't have to put any address in it at all.
23:31
Okay.
I have a really important question for you.
So, you know, one of the old techniques, I remember over the last five.
Ten years is it.
You'd see a lot of service companies getting.
Well, it still happens getting a phone number.
That's identify with a specific area.
So they look like, they look more physically local than they actually are.
23:50
So they may have a distribution center in Hoboken, New Jersey but they've also got a number for Manhattan because That's part of their service area.
And so they're saying, well, we have that and then what they're doing is they're, they're using a storage facility, you know, physical address, or some sort of non-operating address as kind of the anchor for that Pro.
24:09
So, now, they have multiple locations showing up in Google search results, good thing or bad thing.
Well, it depends on who you're asking, right?
If you're the business owner that wants to top dominate in an area, that's a really good thing.
If you're a customer looking for somebody, that's legit or your competition in that area, and you're dealing with I'm only going to use Servpro because they're the big guys out there but if you're Servpro and serpro does have physical locations everywhere.
24:33
So it's not an issue.
But if they were doing something like that, it's hard to compete.
They throw money after money out of it.
But what I will say, over the years, there's been a multitude of different ways to gain the Google business profile, in the organic, search rankings stuff.
And every algorithm update that comes out shuts that stuff down, right?
24:51
They identify a problem.
And then they penalize the people that are doing it because they're very clearly outlined in there.
Their terms of service or their guidelines, they call them to Google Business guidelines and there couldn't be any more clear with how you need to set these profiles up.
What information?
You need to have consisted in there.
25:07
Oh I mentioned the address and your business name and your phone number.
We call that the nap name.
Address phone number, right?
You want to have that nap, not only.
Now if you only have a Google business profile, that's fine.
Just make sure that you have a Facebook Instagram and that that nap is consistent.
It used to be that if it was used dr4 drive and you spelled out, you know, and you put that on your Google business profile.
25:27
But You spelled out drive on your website.
There could be some way to penalize that because it's not an exact name address phone.
I'll now how much weight is bared on that now?
I don't know.
But it is something that you just want to maintain and keep consistent.
So yeah, there's a lot of different ways you used to be able to gain the system companies, used to be able to write, buy a domain, best water damage restoration, Dallas now calm and guess what their number one on everything anywhere in Texas or Dallas area.
25:51
And you know, there was a big update that smash there's no such thing as a direct match domain name anymore.
So, and Consistently over the years, this stuff is going to go more and more, and one of the big things they did with this latest algorithm update was a proximity update.
So it kind of mitigated that kind of stuff.
So they're really, I mean, we have clients where we've had to provide like, typically you're going to provide a photo of the front of your door.
26:12
So if you say in there, if we say like these, guys have a legit physical address, right?
If we say this is our address one, they're gonna want to send a postcard there.
Then they're probably going to suspend your profile once you verify until you provide documentation proving that you're actually there and it's not a p.o. box.
So they're going to need Need front of the door with your, with your branding, on its name, phone number logo, whatever.
26:32
Then you want, a picture of the front of your door from the street, then they want some sort of documentation electric bill or anything like that.
That proves that you're there, then they'll analyze it and then they'll reinstate your profile.
And that's guys, if you're listening to this, that's a hack.
If you do get your profile suspended, typically, that's what it is.
So if you're a company that wants to rank in other areas fit city-by-city, just set your service area relative to that, right?
26:55
So if you screw a 60-mile Area around Dallas, Texas.
Just make sure you're covering all the little cities and subsidies and that would dive really nurture into nerdy stuff when it comes to SEO and how all this stuff works together.
But it essentially the way Google looks at searches, they just want to make sure that you're legitimately there.
27:11
So you have content on your website to back that up.
You have pictures you've uploaded from different, you're different service, areas on your Google business profile there.
A I will scan that they'll know what's in the picture where the picture was taken and who uploaded?
Well, that's one way there, mitigating that as well.
So if somebody just, you know, you're if if you're not doing this the right way, you're going to at some point, you may be doing killing it.
27:30
Now, your agency might be killing it for you but at some point you're going to be really sorry and you'll be blacklisted and you'll have one day you wake up and you have no organic traffic and no listings.
Hey friends, who listeners we're doing some little bit different with our ads.
So you've been a customer here in some ads with our favorite partners, and companies in the industry.
27:47
Now, we actually have a product page our partners page on our website.
So, floodlight grp.com forward slash Partners.
Want to give you a quick rundown, though, if the people that we're partnering with, Believe in as really go to resources in the industry.
The first one is restoration Erp.com, right?
28:03
Erps are an important part of our sales process, our customer development process, and why reinvent the wheel, the restoration Erp platform is awesome.
It can be customized to your business branding, and all that kind of stuff and has all the components to really create a value.
28:18
Add for your commercial client, accelerate job management software.
Everybody needs job management software and we have just found accelerate Not only is their team like just really great to work with when they get ideas from customers, they throw it into the the product roadmap and they implement it.
28:35
They're really advocating for the contractor and trying to create a software solution that works for them actionable insights.
We recommend actionable insights all the time, right?
All of us is restoration.
Operators are looking for TurnKey resources and training solutions that we can take our team to the next level and AI when it comes to estimating and matter.
28:57
Or and a lot of the other essential tools were using they're an awesome resource and they're always coming out with new great stuff.
Yeah.
Super influential in the industry.
Super Tech University soft skills, development training for your technicians for your Frontline Personnel.
Let's face it Frontline Personnel are the heartbeat of our company.
29:14
They are the ones that connect with our clients and create the customer experience.
There's no better investment than investing in the ability for those individuals to represent themselves our clients and our brands.
Well, also Super Tech University Surety.
29:29
They essentially are cutting down this life cycle between delivering service and then getting paid.
Stepping in removing the middleman in terms of mortgage companies, refining that pipeline, making sure that it there's at least friction as possible, so we can go out, do a great job and then our business is don't suffer.
29:46
We're waiting to get paid.
The money is coming, and it's coming quickly.
And then the last one guy's is lift a phi's kind of a newer entry to the industry.
They're driving Google reviews.
So there are turnkey Partner that we can literally go out.
Provide a great customer experience hand that name off to our trusted partner and lift up high and have them go chase that Google review, 25 percent conversion rate which is industry-wide people, tend to average, 5% of people, you ask for review, actually convert lift, 25 bumps at 225.
30:16
We were such a big believer.
We are a customer and they've been generating all of our floodlight reviews in a matter of a week and a half for up to, I don't know, Coulson 15 reviews and just a short period of time.
So and I think people just Just underestimate what happens, organically with your SEO search activity.
When you're getting these new and active five star reviews from our clients and we just can't let the pedal up on that because of the effect on a business is long to big deal, so check it out.
30:40
Check out our partners page do business with them.
You won't regret it.
We're confident in that floodlight grp.com forward slash Partners.
Thanks guys.
I know for a lot of businesses, Probably sounds a little frustrating, but I think at the end of the day, if it's like know, the cool thing is, there's a little bit of honesty that's being asked for here.
31:00
It's like, instead of it being a game, it's it's we have to legitimately be operating in this space in order for us to be competing and I you know, there's part of me that likes that.
I think it can be a little bit difficult.
We can talk about this offline.
When really you're servicing an area with far outside of just where you're building is located.
31:20
For restoration businesses, really?
I mean in most cases we're going what may be up to 90 minutes and any direction to serve our client?
And so I think some of this accountability is great, I think it'll I think it levels the playing field so that we can compete on quality and Service delivery instead of games.
31:37
So anyways.
Yeah what leveling the playing field is probably the best way to put it because let's face it.
It you know there's guys that are listening to this org either out there are just starting out or gals that are just starting out that don't have the budget to throw money and have a team like We have a team that's dedicated only to Google business profile.
31:53
We have a team is dedicated to SEO.
Then we have a team that does both because we're like I mentioned before, SEO and Google business profile.
Now is completely married together.
So if I'm want to rank in organic section in the map section, you need to be doing a combination of both of those things but more so learning how they work together and how they interlinked between each other and how you can capitalize being honest and doing it right.
32:15
But how to properly do it and what the effect is going to be because in this in this world and This type of marketing, there's no such thing as a direct response, right?
Everything you do.
And I like to liken it to planting a garden, right?
So the leads are the vegetables that you're going to bear from the garden, right?
And your SEO, your Google business profile, your garden that you want to get fruit from those free leads, once you get those rankings and you maintain them.
32:37
Well you have to till the soil, you have to invest in people and tools and technology, and you have to nurture it until it grows.
And the pay-per-click is like going to Publix or whatever grocery stores in your area.
We have Publix is down here.
Shout out to Alex, Pub Subs, the grocery store, like pay per click.
32:52
So while you're, you're waiting for your garden to grow mean, you still have to nurture it, you have to do these things, but you can at least get these leads coming in Via pay-per-click and be a lead generation or buying leads if you if you're so inclined.
And then once your garden grows, you still have to maintain it and then you can choose to not go to the grocery store, go to the grocery store, which is a really good problem to have.
33:09
You got, to be honest with this stuff and it really, you know, is as frustrating is to have all these changes.
It is it does want to keeps our team on our toes and allows us to it levels, the playing field for digital Going agencies as well, right?
We get a chance to learn more about the industry and figure out how it works and do it the right way for somebody, okay?
33:27
So talk to us about how do we maximize this profile?
So we talk about accuracy is a really really important thing across all of our social profiles that there's a consists, everything's well aligned.
But then I'm seeing here in this is a part that I didn't really know about.
Until you mentioned it on previous chat.
33:44
Is I see we can add the photos.
There was another prompt in there.
Would you like to make an update on your pig?
Like how what can we do and then what kind of cadence our frequency is going to benefit us the most in terms of updates or adding value added content.
34:01
Sure.
Yeah.
And we're going to go right back into it.
The name of the game is optimizing your profile, right?
So the basics have to be there, get your basics, in order, your name, your phone number, your address, your service area.
What you do in a nice description, and tell people what you do, the other cool function, how you manage this on a consistent basis.
34:17
Now, you mentioned frequency frequency to me.
Is it is important isn't as important as consistency, right?
So if you're going to do it, you have to understand what your bandwidth is, because this stuff takes a lot of work.
That's why I have a team.
If I didn't have, you know, it wasn't a lot of work.
I'd be doing it myself.
34:32
So posting what I mentioned before is that they actually give you an SP update, where is it?
Update section, you're able to add an update, right?
So let's say you just completed a water damage job in your city and you wanted to tell people about it, right?
Well hey here's a water damage, restoration job.
34:48
We did a next city customer We're happy.
We're going to be wrapping up.
Next step is, you know, reconstruction we're can't wait for the people to move back in but that in a little description are if you want to learn more visit our website or give us a call caveats to the call thing, don't put your number in a description.
Google will not let you do that.
That's another way of getting the system.
35:04
Yes, there are some tricks you can do to maybe get yourself a little exposure, but at the same time, you may be walking that line of getting your post flag which isn't the end of the world, but it's something you'd rather just err on the side of caution then you can add a button, right?
So what I want them to do.
35:20
You want them to call you?
Do you want them to go to your website?
You want them to order online, if you're doing something like that, and the difference between those three are actually the difference in posting.
There's a chapter of my book about social media and people always ask what are we post on social media?
Typically, people are just posting like a call us.
If you have water damage, call us, if you have this call us at.
35:37
They're just sail sail.
Sail sail.
Mmm you have to take into consideration like a 75 percent rule right?
75% of your posts and this goes for Google have to be value, should be value-based.
All right, person.
Love's value based content, your users love value based content because you're teaching them something, you are showing them what to do if they find mold in their house or telling them what to do, and then 25% should be sales, right?
36:01
Call.
Now, if you have property damage restoration, we offer these services in these cities.
So take that into consideration when you're updating but there's no frequency to great, it's more about consistency.
If you can do two of these updates a week due to a week every week and you'll see a major major increase in your rankings, your phone's going to start bringing a little bit more.
36:20
Have good reviews and your website looks nice and we talk a little bit more about how all these things kind of work together between your website.
Converting, the traffic SEO pay per click and now the Google business profile than the big most basic level.
This should increase your visibility.
The cool thing about photos that's kind of new and the updates is Google's AI.
36:39
It's like Skynet can will scan these photos, so it's becoming self-aware, all right?
And I'm not saying this as a negative and I really love it because let's say you did that water damage job in.
City, right?
And you posted and you have a before-and-after.
What Google's gonna look at is they're gonna look at the keywords in your description.
36:55
Here's a water damage, restoration project an emergency water, damage restoration project we did in Dallas customer blah blah blah blah learn more call us today.
If you have an emergency now you have a picture of a house that's floated, right?
Maybe they're sink broken.
They've got water all over their kitchen or stuffs and moldy and rotten.
Google can see that they're going to look at that picture and say what's in this picture, right?
37:13
And I don't know if you guys have ever tried this, but on your phone, if you have a picture in your phone, you can actually upload that phone.
Like if it's a picture of a pair of Butyou, like, you can upload that onto Google and Google to find where that product is located.
So much, like how that works.
If you're going to upload a picture, make sure there's some context to it because Google will look at that picture.
37:30
Just like you.
And I would look at it and say, all right, that's water damage job and I know the picture from the exit data was taken in Dallas.
So they must be a water damage.
Restoration contractor in Dallas will lo and behold they have these keywords in their description and they have a link to their website to their water damage page.
You're really creating this really easy Circle for Google and I talked about getting to the nerdy stuff.
37:50
If there's a big step, you can take beyond that to really capitalize on this, especially if you're using an SEO agency, there's some things you can do, but I'm going to basic level if you can treat this, like your Instagram page and show off.
That's the key right?
Photo wise the basics logo guys, if you have a crappy logo or your neighbor's kid designed, it, really pretend you're looking at somebody else's logo on want and you got to decide if you're going to do business with them, right?
38:15
Same thing goes for your website.
It's like you're walking into the mall and you see some rundown Shack?
Rappy plays.
And then there's this place a sell the same thing right next to it.
That's like legit, they've got music playing, or you got to treat your branding the same way because those are big assets for your business and they're tangible assets that nobody can take away.
38:31
One of the things we did with with a PR right off the bat, one of the things we do with our clients is this is their old logo and this is their old website, right?
Here's a quick.
I'll just Breeze through this real quick.
This is their old website.
When we first came a lot about their logo, it's fine.
I mean, it serves a purpose, they didn't business for a long time, very successful business, and here's their new updated website.
38:50
Logo.
Just a spin on it, a little bit more professional.
You know, if you want to scroll through the website here, big difference?
Yeah, there it is.
And it's more.
It's a lot of this stuff guys, is just common sense.
Right?
You know, a lot of people get married, like I love my website.
I know I had somebody build, it was free and I want to deal with it.
I'm getting calls because I know a plumber, will happens in a plumber retires, why even have a website if you're not going to do an SEO, it's like having business cards.
39:11
You never take out of the box, you know, you need a skill, those roads, people find it.
Yeah, love that analogy.
That's great.
Yeah, so the other cool, the other thing about Google Business.
Besides the call tracking adding your photos logo.
Cover photo all photos, a job show off.
Throw it all on there.
39:27
There's so many free graphic design programs.
I can buy the like literally.
My grandma could go on there and make a cool little post if you need to.
Don't neglect it, right?
So add photos, consistently, add updates, consistently.
If you are paying somebody to do SEO, you're doing SEO yourself.
Part of SEO, should be some blogs.
39:43
Every once in a while with not monthly.
Throw those blogs on your on your Google business profile and Link back to that blog on your website.
And then The blog on the website, but only through Google business profile, it's back in it.
So if you know anything about SEO, that's a big part of your ranking factor or those backlinks that you're generating and what better, backlink than Google.
39:59
Okay.
Don't get a lot of ideas, even just for our own stuff here.
Ya know, kid, listen, if you are a service based company, I don't care if an electrician a plumber or a roofer, anybody that somebody's in your house as an issue, they can pick up the phone and call you Google business.
Profile is free.
It's not that hard to manage and if you follow the guidelines or look at some of our clients, Look at our website.
40:20
Look at our clients, local.
We're doing just copy what we're doing.
Well, I was just going to say it's impossible to pull in video content on Google business profile.
Yeah, you can actually rub put videos on Google business profile and backup video or is huge.
If you can, if I could get every one of my clients to create video, they would be that much more successful they have, but bigger rankings.
40:38
And guess what?
The second largest search engine in the world is YouTube and Google owns YouTube.
So why not?
And I just said that.
Google likes value based content.
You're a restorer and and you make a video on what to do when you have a catastrophic flood or what do you do in the event of a hurricane, you have all these different videos that's value information that you can Syndicate.
40:59
So now you can take that video and you can put it on a Google business profile.
Put it on YouTube, you can create a blog out of it and transcribe and put it on your website.
You can use it for a social media post so you can share it in the industry Association, message boards if you have them.
So you have to think about that type of content and try to squeeze as much juice out of that lemon as possible and syndicating.
41:17
Your content is a big part of that.
So, Out all day.
Like can't say enough about video, okay, is it okay?
You say you're spitting out so much value and knowledge bombs here and I just have to stop it.
Oh, it's okay, dude.
I'm just gonna buy any time.
So to mention something and creating a blog post, where you're embedding that YouTube video and then a transcript, but that's a really simple thing.
41:42
So, are you suggesting when people put a block, a video on their website to produce a transcript of Of the content and also post that along with the video.
Is there, is that a power move?
Yeah sure.
Yeah.
So I'll just walk you guys through what we do, right?
41:58
We're in a little bit different of a ninja, see we service the restoration industry with digital marketing, but really good at syndicating, right?
We if I'm going to take the time to record a video of myself, which I do every single day, you know, I make a one-minute value information video and they all, if you can see on our website, Ironclad restoration, marketing.com, every one of these social media post gets put on our website Gets put on YouTube, gets put on LinkedIn.
42:22
Twitter, Facebook, any of the Facebook groups that I've created to help people do marketing and our website.
And here's, let's see, we're looking at, this is a video that I did, and it's like a quick social media video.
We put the video there, and we have a transcription of the video and then we have ways to get in touch with us and then we have related videos that go with it.
42:40
So I'll put this in terms of a Restoration company.
If you are going to create a video that is just about your business, right?
Why choose us that should be the first thing somebody sees when they go to your website, right?
One of the first things because you were talking about conversion at that point, people want to put a face to the business and if you're going to do that and you're going to take the time to produce and you guys don't need to spend money on a video production.
43:03
Use your phone, you know?
Yes, we everybody is not using a Motorola razors anymore, so there's no excuse.
There's a couple.
Like I still, you know, I still have one but it doesn't work.
So for the video on your phone, don't worry about what you look like.
Don't worry even if people look at it, we I have YouTube videos that Thought were the best thing I've ever done in my life and was like three views and I have stuff that's the dumbest thing.
43:24
And I'm like, that's not even that important and there's like thousands of views on it for some reason.
And I know it's not because of my looks again.
It's using that video content and any piece of content that you make is leveraging, it and syndicating it.
So whether it's a Google Business posts or Instagram post, put it everywhere because people aren't just concentrating on one channel.
43:43
You need to be omnipresent.
That's a big thing that we preach here is it is an omnipresent if you go on our website that's like a Big, big part of our culture here and what we do for our clients and it's not that's just digital talking with Michelle Blevins from seeing our, the other day, she was on my podcast and she talked a lot about the industry.
44:00
You know, I asked her hey what are some things that people can do right now to help grow their exposures?
He said, join the association's and network don't look at your competition is competition.
Look at them as mentors.
That's Paris it really is and in the same thing and all kind of works hand-in-hand.
Your website works with your local business, profile works with your social media, works with your pay-per-click, Site is clean.
44:21
That's nice like that.
I'm ducking out on it.
I really like it a lot actually.
Yeah, I appreciate that.
This is something we changed like 75 times.
Oh, tell me about it.
It's good practice.
You know, I think with websites every three or four years, you should revisit and probably do a little redesign it.
44:38
So sure if you know the fundamentals, but we'll talk about the fundamentals, right?
We talk about conversion.
If you have a when I talk about this, I'm writing an article right now about conversion rate is more important in traffic, right?
If You, if you've been that guy, if you're listening to this and you're that guy that's had or lady, that's had five or six different marketing companies.
44:56
Every month you're going over these analytics and okay, look, uh, forty organic sessions to your site for a new people found you from Google and really well, I don't care.
My phone has arrived.
Got nothing out of calls, right?
So you firearm, you hire the next guy, and they come in and like, yeah, we've increase your traffic to 100 people and really well.
Look, I've only got two calls.
45:11
It's not worth that, that monthly retainer, we have a conversion issue, you don't have a traffic in issue, you know, increasing your traffic.
If you have an issue with your website or you have Pardon my French of crappy.
I don't know if I'm allowed to cuss on the literal.
Oh baby, I'm sweating because I haven't been able to swear in like, however, long.
45:27
We've been all square as much as you want man happen.
Okay.
Shitty website or you have shitty reviews and you have a shitty logo or whatever.
Yeah, Morgan has moved to the next person.
They're in a microwave Society, in terms of property damage, they have an emergency.
So conversion is a huge deal and if you could just take that 30 people that you had, before you started a wasting all this money on all these other marketing mode, Deities and converted more of those 30 people.
45:53
You would have never had a fire original agency in the first place.
Everybody would be happy that's spot-on.
We talked about that closing rates, like people want to increase their leads, that they're generating.
And yet, they're closing, 50% of the leads.
They're already getting.
It's like the big gains are.
Let's add another 25% to that closing rate and see what it does to our Revenue before you spend more money, right?
46:13
Yeah, my guess told me if you're not closing it like a 75% rate like you need help.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
Doing and she is more of the boots on the ground type of sales to.
So, we always draw these parallel between what I do and then the outside sales stuff.
But again, guys, this as you guys will know, a lot of this stuff is common sense.
46:30
Yeah.
And the big problem I think people do is they become box Checkers, right?
Then.
Go to it, like an industry event, the riaa then talking to their body.
Like, hey, how're you getting leads?
I got, maybe got his website.
Will hire an SEO company and I got a cool.
So I'll go do the same thing but they have no idea why they're they're creating without a purpose and a sense.
46:48
So you have to understand the Fundamentals of how people find you put yourself in somebody's shoes.
That is dealing with catastrophic property damage.
They are not looking for a restaurant to go to on date night.
They're not looking for a new pair of shoes.
They've had something happen at their home or business and they need to find somebody to come over right away as quickly as possible.
47:04
That's reputable and help them with their problem.
Not create more problems.
So, if you put yourself in the shoes of that, put yourself in that shoes, it should make it a lot easier to sell to them.
Whether it's speaking of them in person or with your website Google business profile etc etc and again Google That all this, it might not be a human, it's an artificial intelligent.
47:23
And algorithm is looking at this.
But they, yeah, well, I think one of the things that's interesting that you've touched on, I just kind of want to reiterate it again, is, it's really this, there's some battle patients that's required.
I think a lot of people, look at this and they go.
Well, this is how I'm going to generate money today while I grow my reputation tomorrow.
47:43
And there's some aspects that are true about that.
So, you'd mention look, you're probably gonna have to pay to play.
And you know, we're going to see upwards of 100 150 bucks a click in a lot of cases if we're looking for water leads but you're going to do that for a while.
47:58
While you are doing the other foundational work to hopefully increase the number of leads that you're generating through your what I guess we would call it.
Organic SEO rankings or these organic features right?
The garden, your garden.
Yeah.
So the idea is you got to pay to play so.
48:16
So you're either going to start spending some money to bridge that Gap.
App in the beginning, while you develop these other foundational resources, or you just got to exercise the patients.
As you're developing, those foundational resources.
But either way, there's work and resources required while you develop it.
48:34
It's not vice versa, like you're going to have to invest first.
Yeah, and then see the results as you hold your team accountable to their production, right?
Yeah, 100%.
It's you're always making an investment, whether its monetary or time, or in people, In Technologies different things to grow your garden, right?
48:53
And another big issue I think is this Miss manage expectations, right?
People think marketing like, well, I'm going to spend this and I'm gonna get this out of it right now like this month and they're looking at it on a month-by-month basis.
So put those guys, let's change it or not rest restoration contractors during a football team.
49:09
Their goal is to win the biggest score as many points as they can.
And if that guy stood there and stared at the scoreboard the entire time and then turn around and said, how come we're not winning what's going on.
I got a football team.
We're doing all.
We invested all this training and all these things score.
Still not moving what's going on?
It's almost the same thing.
49:25
So if you're if you're so narrow focused on the right now, you're never going to win.
You're never going to be happy with anybody.
There's and nobody's going to be able to solve that as an agency.
You know what we try to do is manage those expectations off the bat.
Look, if you want to only do SEO, here's what's going to happen.
You're probably going to be really upset about the result because it's going to take, you know, if you're in a really competitive area, think about how many of your competitors are there like South Florida.
49:47
There's 2,500 different restoration.
But he's down here.
You don't think they're all trying to rank.
Number one on Google for water damage Restoration, West Palm Beach.
So managing those expectations from the front and taking a big picture view of this stuff is fundamental, but before you take that leap, before you spend money on SEO, before any of that, you have to have your foundation in place right now.
50:08
Starts with your business, making sure you're answering the phone in a timely manner, making sure you're following up with leads.
Making sure your team all has that salesperson hat.
Every single Tech.
You have everybody that touches your business as a salesperson for your Now you have that infrastructure in place.
Now the next step is building a website, right?
50:23
You need to build a hub for all these videos that you're supposed to be making all the Google business profile poster making, you have to have a place to aggregate all that content and that's your website.
So, if you're just sticking your head in the sand, like your neighbor's kid, build you a website and it's like, there's no really thought as part of how it works with the big picture, you're not going to be happy because I don't care how much money you spend on SEO or pay-per-click.
50:43
If again goes back to the traffic.
If your site sucks they're not going to convert your.
It's the same thing as having nothing but Bad reviews.
You think people going to call you once you have like it's let's say you have 20 reviews and 10 of them are bad like probably nobody's gonna call you.
They're gonna go to the next guy that's like four pixels below them on the maps ranking you know and call them that has good reviews and has a website that doesn't scream I'm going to come and rip you off and you know show up smoking cigarettes in your house or whatever the case may be and it happens.
51:08
But this stuff is fundamental to having a website that's built to convert.
You look at mine.
We have most of the conversion.
Fundamentals are the conversion fundamentals.
Are you want to make it really easy for somebody to know what you do and get in touch with you?
That's it.
Really simple and more.
So on the mobile side, right?
So if you're looking at your, if you're listening to this or watching on YouTube, pull up your website on your mobile phone.
51:27
How long does it take you to get to a phone number where you can click the call?
How long does it take you to get to your services?
You know how long.
But if you needed to call somebody and they went through that whole buyer journey of finding you on a search engine.
How long does it take them to get in touch if you're making them dig on your website right here to say what you do?
51:43
Here's what we do.
Right here above the fold, if you're making them dig going to bounce off and go somewhere else.
So question while This topic of conversion because I agree with you, right?
I mean, 100% of nothing is nothing, right?
And so focusing in on conversion of what are we doing with these inbound leads?
52:01
How important is that person?
That's first on the phones.
David.
It's and what are some best practices from your perspective when it comes to tasking with that person training best practices like talk us through how important that initial Voice or physical contact is, Yeah, I mean it's crucial.
52:21
So think about if you wanted to go get your teeth done at a dentist you didn't know anything about and somebody answered the phone or let's say this happens a lot.
They just didn't answer the phone.
You left a message.
Nobody called you back, right?
He called her and business hours.
Goes right to voice mail.
You never get a call back.
I mean are you going to use them?
52:37
Probably not, you're not going to wait around for three days for somebody to finally call you back.
So that first person is really important and they should it in its entirety, we just did a podcast episode about this on the restoration rundown.
We your team, your entire Our company, our sales people, whether they like it or not your taxes or sales people.
52:53
If you have, if you're big enough to have a janitor, he's a salesperson for your company, everybody's representative of your company as a whole.
So everybody should be on the same page as far as the culture of your company.
What your beliefs and what you believe in.
If you say 24 hour emergency service 60 Minute response time.
53:09
You better hold yourself to that answering the phone during business hours.
And for the terms of Property Restoration, after business hours is important, once they get on the phone, you have to understand who you're talking to.
Right.
You're dealing with someone who's probably in high a level of high stress.
They don't want to hear any crap.
They want to know.
53:24
Can you come and fix my problem and how fast can you get here?
If you can answer those questions and address their fears on the phone call and then it's the same thing.
I tell people when we're building a website for them, this is what we want to do.
This is who you're trying to sell to, you need to put yourself in their shoes and address, all those fears.
What are people afraid of?
53:40
You're not going to show up, you're going to leave their home in a situation that was before they got there you're going to rip them off and it's gonna be expensive, right?
So answering all those questions above the fold.
On your website, it's going to increase conversions right there off the bat just because you're, you're you're addressing those fears and concerns with people.
53:55
So who's answering the phone, it's important respond to messages respond to phone calls within 15 minutes or that lead is gone.
That's just the bottom.
That's, that's the truth.
Like, what are you doing?
If you're not responding in 15 minutes?
Yeah, I love it.
Okay, alright, so we hammered hard on this, this Google business profile and that really is the foundation like start there, right before you get crazy.
54:19
And, and Overwhelm yourself start with the basics and essentially I mean for this isn't as awesome as you walk through, but sign-in look at all the features and I might guess is just look at it, take the time to see what it is.
And if you can put something there of value that, if that professionally represents your brand, do it fill all the blanks, right?
54:42
One last thing we didn't touch on.
That's interesting.
To me is the Q&A?
Is that basically a fact for your profile like you can preview.
Bill use the most common questions and our answers to him so more so other people can ask questions.
So if you wanted to you could go on and say what types of services you provide and then provide an answer.
55:02
But ugh.
Remember it's going to say question from the owner answer from the owner.
So yeah, honestly, there's not a really many areas on your own your Google business profile, that you should not be utilizing in filling out, okay?
You know reviews again guys reviews are huge and I know this is an area of contention was it's really hard to get people.
55:19
Leave your Google review but Google reviews are very powerful, not only from a conversion perspective, but also from a ranking perspective, how to present Google's looking for the most legitimate people that are going to give their customer base, what they need in a, in a real way as fast as possible.
55:35
So you have a ton of bad reviews.
You're going to have a proper hard time, right?
Oh, big tire legitimate bad reviews, that happen all the time and in fact is, you're never going to be able to make everybody happy.
I just had one come in, it was just completely on category false and just gives six.
It's ago and, you know, you got to remember, you have to respond to the negative reviews and, you know, yeah.
55:55
The angry part is like, all I want to tell them how wrong they are and tell them they're lying.
And but, but what you're doing is you're going to look back, right?
So somebody doesn't know who you are and doesn't understand that your job.
What your job is, in the expectations of digital marketing.
They're going to look at that.
And like, you know, I'm not dealing with these guys.
They're arguing with somebody on a Google business.
Like what the hell are they doing so?
56:11
Oh, totally get reviews, but make sure you responding to them.
And really spend more time responding to the negative ones.
Put your customer service had on Thank them for their feedback.
Apologize, give a phone number, give away out for them to resolve this.
Amicably and you're going to look good, even though you have a bad review, its it, affect your ratings, whatever, you can mitigate that by just getting a bunch of really good reviews, cocoa cream, or yeah.
56:32
On the people Champion your business.
It's perfect right on.
Yeah.
Oh and quick plug to lift if I lift, if I.com gang, you guys know where huge supporters of them and and what they can do to generate those Google reviews and one thing I'll just reach back to that, that I was going to mention earlier Zac the Co look to Phi, he mentioned something similar to what you said he referred to his recent, see the recency is really to you and you talked about in the context of consistency best Paramount, whether you're whether you're doing a post, once a week or four times a week, that the consistency of the Cadence is something that Google is tracking or like he described how somebody could have less reviews, maybe even a lower score, but if your last review is in April and they've had one a week.
57:19
Yeah, the last year they are likely going to get outrank you because of their recency and regularity of their reviews.
Right.
Is that, does that jibe with, kind of your?
Yeah?
One.
Yeah, it's spot-on consistency.
Is key with reviews and here's what happens.
This is, this could be an allegory for every business owner, right?
57:36
So, you some reason to listen to this podcast, I'm going to only crap.
I gotta get a bunch of movie reviews and they send.
And there's three ways, just take a step back.
If you guys want to get more reviews, do it.
There's three really key ways that you need to do in all three.
Create a postcard When you're wrapping up a job hand, it to him with a QR codes, hey, would be great.
57:52
Love your Technique has to review a great, send a text send me mail and don't stop until they either leave you a review or they tell you to pound rocks.
Or you're somebody like lift the five.
Somebody can help get those reviews.
It's huge, especially with the consistency.
So what a lot of people are going to do is we're going to listen to this.
58:08
And I'm going to go out there going to email 50 other past customers.
They're going to get seven Google reviews and then an are going to do it again for three years.
Yeah. 100 price.
Yeah sense.
Yeah, I'd rather.
Either again, just like you said, I'd rather see one review a month for a whole year, consistently moving on.
58:24
And so will Google versus getting that 5 and then and three of them are your grandma or three of them really to Uncle.
And I and other people that haven't even done business with you.
Google knows that if you're a business out of Dallas, Texas and your reviews are coming from like northern Maine or an Oregon like probably going to mean as much, right?
58:40
Yes.
No, yeah, no.
The spot on get consistent reviews and have that system built into place and your business like with your sales process, with your eyes.
Off-boarding process, just make sure you're hammering them.
The guys that I see do the best, and some as far as my clients go, that get like 70 percent return.
58:57
They're sending a postcard.
They're emailing and they're texting and they're doing that until they get a review or the person's like, listen, stop texting me, I don't not going to be reviewing things going to stop by.
So I think you made a really good point and just kind of putting the wraps on this part.
This is not a project that pays dividends like, well we got to figure out a reviews and get a bunch more reviews.
59:18
It's a process.
Is that pays dividends is what I'm even being here.
Yeah.
Everything we talk about is a process that pays dividends.
If you think about it I mean invest in your business invest in the information and knowledge you know get books like Ivor and there's a ton of books out there.
There's thousands of online gurus.
59:35
There's all these groups on Facebook and people are sharing their information what works and what doesn't work, but you got to just be consistent with it and be have patience and understand the big picture versus like looking at the right now, if you're only buying leads, and Doing pay per click to yeah I get that right.
59:50
I spent six grand this month on pay per click or buying these.
I got nothing out of it as probably not working but with this other stuff, Google business profile, SEO, social media.
Even you got it, be able to withstand the time because once that if you're doing it right once it clicks into place, it's an evergreen source of leads for your business.
1:00:07
Dominating page, one of Google for everything you do and all of your service areas, there's no better way to get leads right now for your restoration business.
I love it.
I want to send people to you, obviously.
As a resource that they can learn more from, we've just kind of appreciated your style in general, I think people are getting a vibe from the show that your no BS face value, and it's not slick chat, it's not talk.
1:00:32
I don't talk around you.
It's hey, here's here's the the details we can do X Y and Z.
The choice is ultimately yours.
And it sounds like and what we're seeing is you guys are very transparent in in the work once that relationship began.
So, for all of us, this is A bit of a black box, we're all trying to identify who those players are.
1:00:52
That can give us a hand in a fairly complicated environment.
So where are we sending folks if they want to learn more about Ironclad?
Well.
Yeah, first and foremost, thank you very much for that.
You know it's something that's part of our company culture and I really try and so does my team.
We really try to not hide through the ambiguity of this service, right?
1:01:11
We don't know it all, but what I do, we'll know is that we spend a lot of time on Research.
We spend a lot of time testing.
We have a lot of Of great clients and not every one of those going to be a home run and we always, are they going to be the guys that say, we tell you what it is, not what you want to hear, right?
We, I don't care.
I get way more out of helping people, which is why I spent all this time doing these things.
1:01:31
So if you did want to learn more, you want to empower yourself with data and knowledge about doing this.
There's a few different ways you can do at home everyday.
I record a video.
It's on our YouTube social media.
Just look up Ironclad restoration marketing.
I found it a podcast, or I guess, whatever.
Everybody's doing podcasts these days.
1:01:46
I guess, but I did want it started in January.
It's called Restoration run down.
And all I do on this podcast is have guests like yourselves business coaches.
Even just me, just talking for an hour, teaching you something different.
So I really try to keep things really simple.
Just like, if you're a restorer, you're not going to try to trick people to go through water dams, or it's like, look, what do you need?
1:02:06
Okay.
Yeah.
I mean you have a flood.
Okay?
Well, here's how it works and that's it, we don't, that's it.
Like it is what it is.
It's right there, black and white.
We report every single month to our clients and show them.
Here's with is they're not.
And again, they're not always going to be a winner but you To understand when you're hiring a marketing company or hiring a team, it's a very intimate process.
1:02:22
It's not a service.
So you want to check out the podcast restoration rundown, where everywhere, on all the streaming services, I have a YouTube for that Ironclad restoration.
Marketing.com is our website, you can call us.
Anytime you're going to reach one of my team members, you need help with anything.
We're there I've got a book, you can buy it on Amazon, it's all the note bullshit guide to internet marketing for restoration contractors and it is our tried-and-true method of what we do here for our clients.
1:02:47
Exactly in black and white.
Couldn't afford the color copies of how to do this stuff the right way or we're at least like what you need to do, right?
So if you're out there right now guys, you're working on, maybe hiring an agency, don't just pay somebody for SEO, really listen to what the agencies calling you, because a lot of agencies, get a bad rap because you're not listening to them.
1:03:06
I can tell you, hey, you need to do SEO and Google business profile is going to be this much money like, well we can't afford that, we're just going to do SEO and like it's not going to work.
It is not going to work as good and we've completely just get rid of those people because we know that Neither of us are going to be happy in a few months.
No.
Lumps of really listen.
1:03:22
Anyway, so back to get in touch with us just like that.
Website, Ironclad restoration marketing.com, search my name, Benjamin riccardi or the no bullshit guide to internet marketing for restoration contractors on Amazon.
I've got two different YouTube channels and our websites covered and I mean every video I've ever done right on our website, in the blog section, like I said, Syndicate your content, but it's right there and we teach you everything from start to finish on how to do it.
1:03:43
The reality is not everybody has the time to do it effectively.
It's like cheetah and Royal.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Practicing.
What You Preach?
Yeah, yeah.
We try to you know.
Anyways we try to keep our fingers on the pulse and we try to learn as much as possible and come into these things.
And these situations in a humble manner because you know we might not be the best but we are trying our absolute best and that's all we can control that on the men.
1:04:04
Hey thanks again, we sure appreciate your time, dude.
This has been fun.
Yeah, I really appreciate what you guys are doing to.
You guys are kicking the ass.
Hope to talk to you guys soon.
Thanks for having me on.
Got a man, sounds good thanks buddy.
Yes sir.
All right, everybody, he thinks for joining us for another episode of head, heart and boots and if your join the show but you loved this episode, please hit follow formerly known as subscribe.
1:04:29
Write us a review or share this episode with a friend, share it on LinkedIn.
Share it, via text, whatever.
It all helps.
Thanks for listening.
All right, everybody, he thinks for joining us for another episode of head, heart and boots and if your join the show but you loved this episode, please hit follow formerly known as subscribe.
Write us a review or share this episode with a friend, share it on LinkedIn.
Share it, via text, whatever.
It all helps.
Thanks for listening.