0:07
Welcome Back To The Head heart and Boots podcast.
I'm Chris and I'm Brandon.
Join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses we leave this industry.
Oh my goodness did sometimes.
0:23
Nobody has any idea what we're talking about before we hit started right there and it's sometimes our our conversation that we get into just before we hit go is I highly inappropriate.
It's amazing.
So we won't talk about that but instead we're getting we're gonna get into a show topic today.
0:40
Actually this was your lead and I'm excited about it before we get into Today's Show.
Yes, sir.
Let's talk about our spotters, our friends, our partners.
I'm talking about lift if I so you just slow your roll.
Okay, do it guys, I know if you're consistent listener of the show, I know you've heard some of this before.
0:59
But you know what the reality of it is is that Chris and I, if we're going to work with a There's a couple things that are very important to us.
One is there's got to be value for The Listener, there's got to be value for the company, right?
That's the it legitimately.
It's not just a what's in it for us here at floodlight or the show.
1:17
But what's in it for you guys as our as what we feel is as our client and Zach's team at lift?
If I they just kind of exemplify all of it, they create Real Results.
They measure it, they monitor it, they report on it to ensure there's no gap between the Their clients perception of what they're receiving and what they're giving and it's a, it's a resource or a service that just has way more value than the cost associated with it.
1:43
And it's the, I mean, sounds very utilitarian, but that's couple of the real key factors and why we believe in lift a fire while we continue to promote it.
The other thing is just the backing behind the company who the founder is Zack is an outstanding entrepreneur.
He is a great businessman and he's brilliant when it comes to this whole SEO.
2:03
Partying Fiasco that we all have to engage in to a certain extent.
He's created a service.
That honestly for cost versus return is there's just no comparison pound for pound, it's a great service there, kicking ass, they are approaching 20, 25 percent return or participation rate and their reviews, they have a great system where you can respond to all your reviews via a dashboard.
2:27
So it's simple their system automatically posts these five star reviews too.
Your social media platforms.
I like the return is so obvious in our book.
It's just do just do it.
Like the cost is just wrapping their clients to.
Well, I mean we've mentioned that before but like we use lift to fire at floodlight and we are getting way more reviews and we weren't, you know.
2:51
Yeah, more reviews in the last three or four months since we implemented, then we got in the previous, two years.
Oh yeah.
Now and almost every one of our clients has said the same thing on her personal.
And in the opportunity for you guys is stores where you're Hundreds, if not thousands of opportunity, you know, jobs a year, you know, Chris and I are not talking to a thousand people this year, well, maybe, but I don't know.
3:12
Anyway, so so do yourself a favor.
Go to lift five.com for /, floodlight floodlight.
So, we advertise in CNR some of you.
I like how you've heard to our listeners is clients?
Well, they are take the yeah.
They are you're already clients.
So you know, rest call us when you need something see in our so we advertise in c n r and it's been a great source.
3:33
Of lift one are engaged listeners.
All of you has grown a lot in the last several months, since we started advertising and seeing our, which obviously, to me means a lot of the industry is reading CNR.
And for Brandeis perspective, everybody, we talked to and see, I mean like Michelle is at-michelle Blevins, the CEO, the chief editor, I don't know, I don't know what exactly your title if she owns the show.
3:55
See, an art is like the intersection Point within our industry, like all the, all the important stories.
The greatest news.
She and her team are scooping.
All the biggest stories there at everything there at everything.
This is involved in everything.
We ran into her, at course.
4:11
I'm at this last week.
It was awesome.
So she just got a presence that she's developed and relationships all over the place that's super valuable.
And of course, awesome articles we write some of them and and we read a lot of them to, it's really exciting, but I don't care.
Yes.
4:27
But anyway, if you're not a subscriber yet Ancien, are you need to be?
I mean, there's just there's no cost.
Yeah.
And If you're a company that sells into the restoration space like we sell Services obviously we found it to be a really great advertising platform and we've recommended it to other colleagues and friends who own other companies or serving the industry.
4:45
So if you're selling to this industry cnrs, probably a platform you should be advertising on so keep that in mind.
Okay, my man I've had this kind of thing that I've been wrestling with.
So obviously some of, you know, we're in a little bit of a book club with the boys the blue-collar nation.
5:01
Our dear friends, Eric and Larry I can't wait to find an excuse to spend more live time with those guys, but my point is, we're reading a book together.
Some of us faster than others hint.
Hint, Chris, get started.
Haven't started procrastination called the dichotomy of leadership and it's a Jocko willing book, it's a sequel.
5:21
If you will to his extreme ownership that he put out, he felt like there was some additional layers of leadership that they needed to unpack.
And they do a great job.
Point of the book essentially, is this dichotomy of leadership Shep is this idea of these balancing requirements and priorities?
5:38
When we lead people, there's this we can't live in extremes of one end of the pendulum swing or the other.
And I think that that's where they kind of came back and dialed in the rest of the color under extreme ownership.
So as Leaders, we still have to have extreme ownership in the sense of like Henry Cloud would say.
5:56
We get a combination of what we allow our what we create an extreme ownership talks about that literally is list.
Our personal lives, our relationships or professional environment.
You're going to get a combination of what you allow and what you intentionally put into place period.
Anyways, in the midst of that.
6:13
Chris.
And I feel strongly about the fact that when you take on the mantle of leadership by saying, yes, to a formal leadership title.
This is different from influencers and they were all leaders.
We're all leaders empty, right?
We're all leading ourselves wrote, you know, some of us, have some down lines of some sort of, anyways, idled Worship you take on a mantle and a responsibility and in the military, the term that they use is the burden of command.
6:43
So it's this idea that is soon as I say yes to a formal leadership position, I take on the responsibility for the decisions that I make and how they impact my team, my people and myself.
And those around me, the interesting thing of course, is when we look at, you know, stories by like Jocko will include for those of you don't know whose ex-navy seal Was a platoon Commander.
7:05
Think he ended up actually taking over a larger unit force of being the commander of that team, Rich experience in the Special Operations environment, and spent a lot of time in Iraq to my credit, even though I haven't started reading the book.
I've probably listen to, like, 150 episodes of Tosh.0.
7:22
Yeah, yeah.
Which cover the gamut right.
Yeah.
So anyways, he's, you know, his leadership experience that he brings to the table is vetted and real.
Life War environment.
Specifically in force-on-force environments, where there's violence of action, there's real life consequences that reach far beyond 2 PL and yet there's these lessons that we learn in those extreme types of environments that prillie apply well to business in general.
7:52
And of course you and I specifically feel like it applies very well to our industry and the business inside these service sectors anyway so this idea the burden of command balancing your decision-making.
And in conjunction with that, it's the idea of how do we as a leader come to terms with those decisions that we inevitably have to be forced to make?
8:13
And so, like an example, I think just kind of kicked this off is think about our employee relationships, right?
Like we talked about it, a lot on the show, we recently had an interview with Marcy Richardson from guarantee just brilliant smart woman point is, is that we are going to be forced to make decisions as leaders and we We have kind of two context for these decisions.
8:36
We have decisions that are best for the greater team as a whole, the company, the pl, right?
Are sustaining business and then there's other decisions that the value of the outcome or the the outcome I guess has a very specific impact on the individual.
8:54
Right?
And and sometimes in order for us to continue to make progress, towards the goal towards the mission or is Jocko would be referring to.
Complete the mission.
We're going to have to send people to do hard things and hard environments and that's difficult.
9:10
And there's going to be some negative circumstances.
Some negative outcomes that come sometimes from that to include things.
Like sometimes I got a fire, a single person for the greater good of the rest of my team and those aren't easy decisions.
There's a dichotomy that we get stuck in there and there's a weight or a burden of command that we have to shoulder.
9:31
And so I want to talk a little bit about that because Cuz I think one of the big things that we miss out on is, you know, you and I are consultant gonna and we work with teams and one of the things that we find is that nine out of Ten teams know what they need to be doing even if it's not in black and white terms, they've got at least tribal knowledge on.
9:51
This is our process.
This is what we do.
This is how we do it yet.
They do not have consistency.
In execution, there's a giant gap between what we say and what we actually do and so, Bility comes from this idea of holding people to Performance standards, making people do hard things often in hard environments, like that's just part of the job, but if we don't create that accountability, if we don't make the tough decisions, our business suffers for it, right, a mission doesn't get completed.
10:23
If we're afraid to make a difficult decision and then bear the weight of that decision and the outcomes of that decision.
Sometimes we're going to make Right decision.
Sometimes we're not.
Sometimes we have to sacrifice one to save many, it's not easy.
No matter how you slice it.
10:39
So so can I go back and I want to poke it.
Something you said, as you were kind of introducing this, yes, topic you brought up extreme ownership and I think and you said that, you know, it's about making difficult decisions, right?
And it's dichotomy leadership, making difficult decisions and bearing the weight of those choices and dealing with the consequences.
11:01
But I feel like also to from having Sir Jacko for all these years and and read extreme ownership.
I feel like you would also say and there's some Nuance to this, but he would also say that as a leader, you're not only responsible for your own decisions, But ultimately you're responsible for the decisions, your people make a hundred percent.
11:20
Now, of course, there is an aspect of we were just talking about this with Marci.
There's there comes a point where right?
We've given somebody all the tools we've equipped them, with all the necessary resources, they need to be successful.
They understand the standards, they're very clear on what's being expected.
Acted of them all this kind of stuff and then ultimately that the employee will make a bad choice, right?
11:39
And essentially their self terminating, right?
If we've provided them all the resources, Clarity and objective and Mission and all that kind of stuff, and they still choose to make different choices.
Will ultimately, I guess we're not responsible for that they're responsible for their own removal from the team.
But what I mean is is that often times our team makes bad choices in the field and I think is leader.
12:02
Certainly I can only speak for myself.
Of, I'm not always quick to accept responsibility for my role in that bad decision, right?
As a leader, and I feel like having listened to Jocko many many times, like, when there's a mistake made the mission, it's at least partly and I don't know what if he were sitting here right now?
12:18
If he would say, no, it's all my responsibility that that, that error was made in the mission because clearly, I wasn't clear enough.
I wasn't smart enough in terms of who I may be put in that role.
They weren't ready.
I what you know what I mean?
Yeah.
Like I think his inclination would be to To accept full responsibility for not only his choices, but the decisions and actions and behaviour of his downline team now.
12:41
And when you take that level of responsibility, it forces you to take a more global view of your business and how you're leading an unfortunate right now, I think you tapped into something there and I think that this is part of like what we lean into so often is this idea that you and I have just built feel very strongly that once you take on a formal Stripper.
13:03
All you've got now, this extended font ability to adapt to learn to grow to gain new skills.
Like areas that were very soft and completely a weakness for you.
You're going to have to shore up to a certain extent at minimum an unlikely, take that to the next level by putting somebody on your team that can help completely make up for that weakness.
13:25
But, you can't ignore it.
You can't just be.
This is who I am.
I'm an entrepreneur.
I'm this, I'm wired this way.
Naturally, you just have to deal Deal with it or learn me or learn to deal with me and you and I don't agree with that.
There's some realities there but as the leader you have the burden of, of adapting changing Gettys.
13:44
It's all like, if the buck stops with you, everybody.
Everything stops you through, right?
You're responsible for all of it.
If you're going to, if you're going to take hold of the authority and the influence, you're also taking all the responsibility and it's so easy.
13:59
I think.
And I fall into this in different words in different ways.
Days where you have an employee, that makes a bonehead decision.
Right?
Does something in the interest of themselves who they forget the interests the team, right there, not minding the four Ps look, we talked about whatever and it can be really easy as a leader.
14:16
Sometimes to commiserate with our fellow leaders, we liked this bonehead disguise, always making these boneheads mistakes.
And instead of saying wait, what does that say about me?
Yeah, as their senior leader, that they keep making these boneheaded choices.
Either one, I've left somebody on the team.
14:32
That's not committed to the team.
I've allowed them to stay in place or where have I failed to equip them and Coach them and Mentor them.
Yeah, right.
Yeah, but where, where am I in this problem versus?
Oh yeah.
We got this problem employee that somehow we need to get them to get their shit together, right?
14:49
Well, is there may be some shit I need to get together in order to make sure that person is better equipped.
You know and it's interesting too because you know even Jocko will talk about the fact that there's this demand or need for decentralized leadership.
Otherwise you're just no matter what.
No matter how great a single person is they will become a chokepoint, right under this idea of decentralized commands, this idea that we have people amongst our ranks that can take that message, that mission that Vision that commander's intent, and they can own a piece of it, right?
15:20
Just like in our own businesses.
We have this responsibility to equip our downline leaders in such a way that they can be fully integrated and own the outcomes.
Because Been completely empowered to be successful and to lead those objectives or that that element within our business.
15:40
But I think the thing that we struggle with is leaders is folks will hear a message like this and it just turns into more guilt or weight or Coulda.
Should I need to?
I need to work on this.
I need to adapt to that and it creates this pressure that we put on ourselves that we're almost freezes us in our tracks, right?
15:59
And some of us are more susceptible than others.
I mean, We have people in our sphere that God, I can't even, I can't even imagine the pace they run at.
It's unbelievable.
And then there's others where life doesn't take a ton of life to rock you a little bit and put you off guard or whatever.
But anyway, so this burden this burden of command what do we do with it?
16:18
So first I get feel like there's this principle of recognizing, right, wrong or indifferent.
It's almost like you can agree to not agree, but the reality of it is, is that our people show and the performance of our This is show that as a key leader, who's taken on the, mantle of a specific formal leadership role.
16:38
Our decision-making has a lot of weight.
So that being said, what do we do?
After we recognize I've got this burden of command.
I've I've got this responsibility too, often keep in.
Check the the health and safety of a single person, their best interest versus the best interest of the team as a whole.
16:56
So once we recognize that what do we do with it?
Like how do we manage?
That burden in a way that doesn't take us out of the game, it doesn't become a burden that's become so unsurmountable that we ignore it or decide to not be effective and our management of it or engagement of it like from your experience.
17:17
You've had the burden of command in many different types of relationships and systems.
What did you do?
Like I mean I often watch.
Do you have to make some tough decisions?
We talked about it, we talked about times, we did it right.
Plenty of times where it was not done well, but what do you do to manage the emotional weight of the burden of command?
17:41
Oh man.
Well, you know, just let's go back to the context of hiring and firing because that's the that's the cleanest example.
I think all of us can think about is we've got somebody in our team that is not performing up to the standard or there's an attitude issue where they're creating some kind of toxic environment drama.
18:00
You know we talked about How do we know when it's time to fire?
We asked ourselves.
The questions have I provided this person with clarity about their role clarity, about our expectations and standards have.
I really established Clarity and most of the time for many of us the answers.
18:16
No, yeah, yeah, we get to that, we get to that firing conversation, we got the employee file on our desk.
We have to have that that chat with somebody today.
And a lot of times when we go to answer that question our ego likes to tell a story of well they've had every opportunity.
18:32
We you know blah blah but when we really get down to it, did I really take the time effort and energy to give this person clarity about what I expect from them.
Or was it all inferred?
Visit all implied, a they should know because this is how we run our company, a lot of assumption, I think we're all guilty of that.
18:48
The other thing is have I clipped them.
Do they have the resources to actually perform at the standard?
Right?
Do they have access to the training really?
Or if I just throw them in a truck you know?
Yeah.
Have I just throw them in the truck and are they just said, kind of The mercy of whatever the veterans on the team, tell them, and communicate to them to have a game of telephone really going here.
19:07
That's created the clarity.
Or have we been intentional about it?
It's like, we can ask those questions.
If, if we've given them Clarity, we provided them the resources to be able to live that out.
And then have, we had some kind of ongoing communication and dialogue when standards aren't that.
19:26
Like, has there really been a coaching relationship in place, where they have, who truly had the opportunity in?
Direction to make a course correction or not.
And if the answer to those questions is all.
Yes.
Hey, I've done my part the times where I've had that awareness and that intentionality I can always go home after that conversation and feel just fine about the decision.
19:47
Because it's like Marcy said and in our podcast we just had with her some employees just choose to quit.
They choose to fire themselves because they're unwilling to meet the standard or they're unwilling to be a part of the team.
So it's it.
I've actually found when all those things are in place it's much easier to fire Is Here.
20:06
Yeah my ego still gets cleared up.
I still sometimes I'll either feel like a failure or I'm caught up in why we had to fire him and I'm still upset and frustrated with their the employees performance, but it also helps to overcome 25 years of having employees.
20:21
I've just found that you can't want it more than they do.
Yeah.
And I think that's a lot of my heartburn.
Mmm, when I'm having to remove somebody from the team as I want them to The on the team.
I want him to figure it out.
Most of the time he is sometimes, personalities are just a wrong fit for the team.
20:37
But so for me, that's been really helpful and I don't remember where you and I kind of picked up those principles along the way, but when I deploy that, and I can, really be honest with myself, that helps that changes it.
That almost feels more to me like a preventive measure, right?
20:53
Then a way to deal with, which I like I think, you know, you and I try to both kind of just continued to develop our prowess around understanding and creating Creating and establishing leading behaviors versus the lagging indicators.
And I think that's an example right there of a one way that we can mitigate the impact and or prevent the impact of that burden is to put things in place that give Clarity for both parties around those expectations and our decision.
21:20
Making.
You know, it's funny because my my career and Leadership has kind of spanned you know everything from the military side to this kind of corporate environment.
There's something that I always Found you know, after spending eight years in the military, it's a little bit like an old pair of shoes.
21:36
And so when you have other experiences that are similar to that, they draw in some similar experiences that it's, it feels like home and I've always kind of tried to create that in our work environment.
But but, you know, I certainly over the years, especially in this industry, this it's probably one of the reasons why I love it so much.
21:52
Is that it's it's dear to me, like the challenge of it, the environments that were operating in the conditions.
The pace a lot of it for sir.
Don't you know, to a certain extent reminds me of my time in the Infantry, you know, it one of the things that I always struggled with is when we would have a cat in, you know, kind of scenario or storm scenario or you know, not that long ago.
22:15
And we're again we suffered extreme forest fire scenarios that burnt up to of our passes like tons of damage and lots of work.
And my point is is that there's been plenty of times where I knew I was running my team, literally in To the ground.
22:33
Like there was just a reality that we're going to do some hard things in some shitty environments.
And I'm not sure how to communicate to you when the end will come.
And there's the difficulty in having to lead and command, if you will, in a way that continues to force them to do the hard thing.
22:52
Because when we're left on our own, it's very easy for us to take the path of least resistance.
We use that terminology all the time and as humans, specially when Shit gets difficult.
We're gonna lean into that path, right?
When you're tired and you've been grinding, freaking eight days a week for umpteen days.
23:10
If an opening comes you're just gonna slip into it most likely.
Oh yeah.
And so as a leader we just have this burden of okay how do I continue to drive the horses?
Not give them that out because knowing that they just can't help but take it and our clients need us right now.
23:26
This events not forever.
There's so many big gains to this opportunity that The health of the company change the direction.
We can go.
It, it outfits us with resources that we may not have had access to.
Now things opportunities for me, to develop and invest into my people.
23:43
And there's this reality of, I'm asking people to stay away from their kids, their families not be at home, they're not getting as much rest as they should be.
And so their safety concerns, I start to worry about.
There's just this idea of what is going to be the cost of me driving the team.
23:59
This hard for this period of time.
And so that dichotomy they're balancing, those two things can be very, very difficult and I often would just have this very uneasy weight that I was carrying as a leader knowing I was forcing my team to do these things and understanding, dude, they're only people like, they're only humans and like I'm going home right now and having really tough conversations with my family because I'm working fucking 70 hours this week.
24:28
Well, all my people are having that same conversation and you know how, Conversation, looks when you're not the boss, like what do you like when I go home and tell my wife, we have a fairly traditional household.
Kinda, when I go home and say, hey, babe, you know, we're going to have to grind gears for a while, right?
24:44
We've had many conversations like this in our company now.
Yeah.
Hey, we're traveling every other week.
Is that the goal?
No.
Do we have to do it right now?
Yes, it's tough.
But going home and telling my family that as the GMC.
Oh oh you know founder whatever the hell your title is.
25:02
I'm gonna have to grind some absurd hours.
I'm not going to be very available, okay, but they get it.
Like there's some context there that says you're the head of the shack.
Like, like, if things are going to be tough, I understand.
You need to carry that weight.
Be an example.
When you're an hourly employee and you go home and tell your partner, dude, I'm gonna get really real here.
25:22
Most of the people on our team are not getting rich because they work for you though.
Like let's fucking think about that for a minute.
Okay, there's tension in payroll, right?
I don't think we have a role in the industry that outright is about to retire because of their compensation package from your company, all right?
25:40
If you're a tech on our team there's no doubt in my mind what you bring home is not setting your partner's hair on fire, okay?
There's tension you're grinding your balls off to get the level of income that you are and I don't think anybody in your household goes, you're the luckiest person to work at that job and make that hourly rate If we're honest.
26:00
So then that same person goes Home talks to their spouse.
And says, I'm going to be grinding like 70 hours this week.
I have no days off for the unforeseen time and I really don't know how available I'm going to be picking up the kids, all dissipating in anything.
Yeah I was free shopping food, prep house, clean how small it is, animals family Endeavors.
26:20
Like what happens what what is that individual than pressing down on the rest of their family to meet that demand?
That's real.
That is the real burden of command.
That if we give a shit.
Yeah and we should because when when we as a key leader are making decisions for the good of the team, good for the strategy and we're deploying humans to provide them to execute on that strategy.
26:48
The burden of command is the fact that you are making decisions that force them to be in compromising positions.
It just is part of the game.
And so, if we're really conscientious about that, like, we're gonna have to develop some skill sets around it.
So I'm trying to keep this in some kind of like categorical Direction I guess.
27:07
But so first recognized guys we have the burden as leaders of the burden of command as long as our heads.
In the right space, you better have the burden of command because the weight of your decisions is Big, it's heavy and it means a whole lot more than just the nuts and bolts of your PL.
27:23
So then when we recognize that there's a couple things that we have to do, one is I think you can be more preventative in the way that you set the table for you.
Team in your employees, that will hopefully help prevent you from having to be in these kind of situations more than you need to.
But inevitably, something's going to happen and environment and event something where we force our teams to be uncomfortable and do hard things.
27:47
And when that begins to happen, What do we do?
How do we begin communicating and leading our team?
That doesn't remove the responsibility of creating the win and hold in forcing the team to do hard things yet remembering The humanity and doing it in a way that that we still respect each other.
28:06
When that shit is over because nothing is forever.
Yeah.
Right.
You want to go make hay while you can.
I get it big event Cat event hurricane.
I don't fucking care.
Whatever the thing is.
That's a short-term piece in the entire history of your company.
Yeah we come back home and we come back home.
28:23
That thing is over and you are either left with a burning Rubble, or you're left with a team that's more loyal and more dedicated to you than they ever were because you led the right way when shit was hard.
A frenzy listeners.
Would you in some little bit different with our ads.
28:38
So you've been a customer here in some ads with our favorite partners, and companies in the industry.
Now, we actually have a product page Partners page on our website.
So, floodlight gr p.com forward slash Partners, want to give you a quick rundown, though, if the people that we're partnering with and we believe in as really go to resources in the industry.
28:55
The first one is restoration, ER p.com, right?
Erps are an important part of our sales process, our customer development process and Why reinvent the wheel?
But the restoration Erp platform is awesome.
It can be customized to your business branding, and all that kind of stuff and has all the components to really create a value.
29:14
Add for your commercial client, accelerate job management software.
Everybody needs job management software and we've just found accelerate.
Not only is their team, like just really great to work with.
When they get ideas from customers, they throw it into the the product roadmap and they implement it, they're really advocating for the contractor and trying to create a software solution.
29:35
That works for them actionable insights.
We recommend actual insights all the time, right?
All of us is restoration.
Operators are looking for TurnKey resources and training solutions that we can take our team to the next level and AI when it comes to estimating and matter poor.
29:52
And a lot of the other essential tools were using, they're an awesome resource and they're always coming out with new great stuff.
Yeah.
Super influential in the industry.
Super Tech University soft skills, development training for your Conditions, for your Frontline Personnel.
Let's face it Frontline Personnel.
30:08
Are the heartbeat of our company.
They are the ones that connect with our clients and create the customer experience.
There's no better investment than investing in the ability for those individuals to represent themselves our clients and our brands.
Well, so super Tech University Surety, they essentially are cutting down this life cycle between delivering service and then getting paid stepping in removing the middleman in terms of mortgage companies, Meaning that pipeline, making sure that it, there's at least friction as possible, so we can go out, do a great job.
30:40
And then our businesses don't suffer, we're waiting to get paid.
The money is coming and it's coming quickly.
And then the last one guys, is lift a phi's kind of a newer entry to the industry.
They're driving Google reviews.
So there are TurnKey partner that we can literally go out, provide a great customer experience hand that name off to our trusted partner and lift up high and have them go chase that Google review, 25 percent conversion rate which is His industry-wide people tend to average, 5% of people, you ask for review, actually convert lift, 25 bumps at 225.
31:11
We were such a big believer.
We are a customer and they've been generating all of our floodlight reviews and in a matter of a week and a half for up to, I don't know, cousin 15 reviews and just a short period of time.
So.
And I think people just underestimate what happens organically with your SEO search activity.
When you're getting these new and active five-star reviews from our clients and we just can't let the pedal up on that because of the effect on a business is long.
31:35
It's a big deal, so check it out.
Check out our partners page do business with them.
You won't regret it.
We're confident in that floodlight grp.com forward slash Partners.
Thanks guys.
So, I think the opportunity here maybe is to unpack Some of those behaviors that we've seen and others at times, maybe you and I have used that, you know, use the right methodology.
31:58
But what are some of those standards that we watch people deploy?
So that they manage the burden of command?
Well right.
Yeah, well one of the first things that comes to mind is something I keep coming back to Marcy Richardson because we just had a really cool show with her and better last couple weeks ago.
32:16
And she was saying that one up because they do a lot of cat work.
You know, down in the gold and and something that Sean folks and and her have provided their team is when they have a cat team that goes out on site later.
They're gone for sometimes months, they do two things.
But they have a rotation that the employees can count on.
32:35
Yep.
And I remember, if she said what it was, like three weeks on one week off, but they have a, it's fixed.
It is a fixed rotation similar.
What?
Somebody might experience the military cry.
Yep.
We rotate out.
Get home, get real.
Acclimated and then come back to work.
32:51
So that's one thing they do.
And then when somebody's out on cat that one of the things she mentioned was that they have a Landscaping service.
Yeah.
And that Landscaping service trims that person's Lon.
Yep.
While they're on deployment.
So to speak on in a cat Zone.
33:07
Yeah.
And I thought, man, that is, that's cool and and and you say well that's that's really novel, you know, you spend that 40 bucks a week or something Have somebody's lawn mowed.
But, but it's more about that headspace.
It's more about occupying that headspace as a leader and saying, hey, it's acknowledging, there's a real cost here.
33:24
Now, me as a general manager, making the general manager money or is an owner making profits.
It's easy for me to not even think about because I already pay somebody maybe to you know, take care of my long because I can afford to write but it's really considering our team in their situation and their world.
33:44
And it's like, okay, when dad's Gone or mom's gone on this thing.
What are all the things that are impacted in their home?
Yeah.
Because like they're faint, we're not paying their family, their family is not on our payroll.
Right?
It's that one person.
33:59
Yeah, no one else is getting paid for this additional hardship.
Yeah, right.
So how do we do this on the interesting context, right?
Remember, yeah, because I mean, when you think about, if you're the owner of the company, yeah, your spouse or your kids may not be working in the business but they're getting paid, right?
34:14
That's are you get, you get everything.
Leftover and summed, and that's big or small or whatever it is.
But at the end of the day, your family supporting you and owning your company or whatever, being a senior executive, they're winning along with you, but for our Frontline people.
Yeah.
That they don't necessarily enjoy that same upside.
34:31
Yeah, the family doesn't get to enjoy a lot of the perks of owning a company that come along eventually.
And so, what is real life like for them?
When they're gone for three, four weeks at a time or more because there's a lot of companies that aren't as intentional about that whole cap.
Employment, right?
34:47
And people just leave and they're gone.
Maybe they get a two day long weekend, fly back home and blah, blah blah and they're back in the trench.
And I think what I really like about those examples again you can find other ways to mimic that the outcome of these examples, right?
35:03
That's really what's important here is it's not necessarily that it was the lawn getting mode, it's it.
What is that?
It's a it's showing that you recognize that there are difficulties Beyond just working hard.
Because you're a person, not a whole person has a lot more to them, than just their hours, they're logging.
35:22
I think you also show the family, right, because this is where engagement support and Longevity come from right.
You're not going to keep employees.
If they're at odds with their spouse about their employment period.
You're just not going to fucking win that fight over an extended period of time.
35:39
So one of the things that you're saying right in this particular situation is hey we value you family and we understand you're making sacrifices because we're Asking your partner, your spouse to do this to help us, right?
I think the other thing then you do is you take a tangible measurable concrete step towards showing, I will help you in this.
36:00
I'm meeting you here.
There's because we still have to make hard decisions.
We still have to have these high level of expectations.
We still have to have somebody do something.
That's inconvenient and difficult but we're marrying that with a concrete step of Of saying we recognize it.
36:18
And here's what we're trying to do to help.
Yeah.
And I think that's massive and I think there's all sorts of ways for us to build that into our business when we're asking people to do hard things, right?
Yeah, the other piece to and I jock has talked about this whole bunch of times when he was deployed you know we we talk about structure of leadership Riders.
36:36
Everybody has 10 people you could maximum, we can really only affect and influence and be responsible for ten people, right?
So, one of the things he talks about is with his 10.
When they're on deployment he's making it a point.
He takes it upon himself to to maintain a connection with the spouses.
36:54
Hmm.
Did you know I'd like to talk with them and how are you doing?
And of course within the military there's other resources for spouses and families have soldiers on deployment.
And and he saw that as part of his responsibility to make sure, yeah, that they were getting and accessing the resources they needed and just to see how are you doing?
37:15
That's right.
Right?
And to reassure them, hey I'm doing everything I can to take care of your, that's right.
Your loved one and you know just whatever.
Let me know if you need anything and him taking responsibility for those family relationships and I it sounds like to like Marcy was kind of indicating, the similar level of care, like why can't we, if you're a company that does storm travel or a lot of cat large loss?
37:38
Work, is there any reason why you can't have a champion on the team that's reaching out to families and checking in on folks?
Hundred percent nine times out of 10 there.
We going to be okay.
Yep.
But that one week where you have this mom with three young kids dad's been gone for nine days straight or comes home and sleeps, and showers and, and heads back into their rig, maybe they just need somebody to grab them a bag of groceries because they're absolutely at their wit's end, trying to get the kids everywhere.
38:05
And they don't have any spousal support for the last week and a half, right?
And a 200 dollar batch of groceries changes as it changes everything and the emotional value of that to that, Mom, you know, and I think the value for something like this guy's is, is this idea?
38:21
It's not just cat environments, it's not just being deployed.
It's also how many of us are businesses growing in such a way that today, the amount of volume and work that we're managing looks significantly different than it did call it 120 days ago?
38:37
No.
Well, there's that burden, right.
It takes us time to recruit, it takes us time to ramp up and train like sometimes, especially if you're just fortunate, And you're really experiencing a boom.
In your business, we're going to be on the outer limits of our current capacity from a labor force perspective.
38:55
And that means we can't we can't push the stop button because then we'll lose our momentum.
It means we're going to kind of be asking our people to perform just like they would in a cat environment.
So that's when these decisions and these opportunities can come into play as well right here at home base.
39:11
And I really love that idea who we, it's almost like a courtesy check.
Act like just making sure that that that family is doing.
All right.
And I know some of you going, but yeah, we have a massive team.
It's so hard to keep contact with each one of our team members.
It's like, that's a bullshit excuse.
39:27
Yeah, because the reality of his don't, you have departments?
Don't you have locations?
Don't you have branches.
Don't you have individual teams?
Of course, you do.
Break that shit down and assign somebody to that group.
That can be responsible for that.
Like, don't don't use my team as big as an excuse to not kick, take care of your people, another thing.
39:46
Think about is, how do we communicate threat?
So, I think those are some great tangible ideas.
I think it's enough to get somebody started just to think outside of the box.
What are tangible ways that I can show my team?
I recognize the hardship, we're asking them to Bear yet.
We can't compromise.
Like, this is something that we have to do as a team right now.
40:04
So showing tangible ways of how you can win with them and honor them and respect them and help them.
Take care of these things that distract them from the mission.
But the reality is the reality is we all have someone Way to problem, solve.
I think the other thing is just this ongoing communication.
40:20
Here's something that I saw in leaders before me, and it's something that I adopted and that was, I got very good, maybe Goods, not the right word, I got very intentional about recognizing out loud.
40:38
The shitty part of what I'm asking people to do and I think what I see a lot of leaders do, is they downplay it, they trivialize.
Realize it.
They they do the whole Persona of well I work 90 hours a week.
I've got my grip on all the details on all things at all times.
40:56
Well yeah, I hear you, but you're kind of being a pussy.
I don't know if I might have to bleep that one up, right?
Like it's this it's this very threatening dismissive dismissive, downplaying discrediting way to communicate or it's the straight up ignoring the elephant in the room.
41:15
Yeah.
They just It don't want to verbalize.
The fact that this shit is hard right now.
Yeah.
Those are the two absolute worst versions of leadership that I've seen executed when the need and the demand is high because they're not sustainable.
Yeah.
Okay, what you end up doing one is everybody thinks that you're disconnected?
41:34
If you ignore it because everyone else in the work environment, understand shit ain't the same right now.
Or if you're that person, that's just in quotes so much bigger better and faster than everyone.
Else on your team.
And every time they come to you with a real-life Challenge and it's affecting their performance, or their inability to meet the expectation.
41:54
If we shove that down in threat in and tell them basically that they're they're failing because they're just not making it enough of a priority you're going to lose amazing people from your team.
Yeah, they're only going to accept that for so long.
42:11
And in today's hiring Market, there's plenty of companies that got their shit together.
There's plenty and they will scoop that person up in a heartbeat and the first time that they're shown value.
And that they see proof that they understand that sometimes things are difficult, and yet we still need to mow continue to March forward.
42:30
They're going to thrive in that environment and that team will continue to kick your fucking ass because they got all the a players that you grinded right off your roster.
Kind of got into a thing there, but I think that's important.
So part of what I learned to do over time, which just call the elephant in the room.
42:45
I did this. a lot in the military, man, and I will tell you, It really changed the shape of the kind of relationship that I have with my team.
So even as a team leader, we would get command, we would get assigned Mission.
Strategies training events, right?
All these things and I took it upon myself to consistently say, hey guys, I recognizes the shitty deal.
43:06
This is a tough scenario.
This is a burden on an already, busy schedule.
This is whatever it's going to be tough.
However, I think it's going to take us about three weeks.
We're going to do what we can to share the load and I believe we can make it.
43:24
We can get through this.
It's not going to be easy, fucking sucks.
But we're going to happen.
Make it happen, right?
Hoorah good.
All right.
And everybody's in that looked so different in the way that they received it and responded to it.
Then the guy that was just totally stuck on command and control.
43:40
Fucking do it.
Suck it up, hoorah.
There is a difference in the Loyalty.
There's a difference in the engagement.
There's a difference.
The sustainability of it, like, when we just put our head down and lie to ourselves, and ignore the elephant in the room, we can only do that for so long, because technically our soul knows, there's no end in sight.
44:02
Nobody's communicated to me one more step.
Nobody communicated to me.
We just got to do it for this long.
Nobody communicated to me, there was an end in sight so that I could adjust and keep my mind frame.
Correct.
And the other, and the other issues, when we make it an elephant in the room and we don't talk about Out.
44:18
Just how hard it is in the reality of the situation is we people stopped, trusting us 100% like they stopped trusting us.
They stopped respecting us because they just know in their guts that they're getting shined on.
44:35
Yeah.
And it also creates a lot of division and drama within the team completely because people feel like, well, I can't I can't even talk about the challenges I'm facing because I'm going to get met with just Your shit together and suck it up.
44:50
Like, there is an environment where people will be honest with each other, you know, we and I've talked about this in a lot of different context of the business, it's same in customer experience this.
A real customer service service delivery in our industry, very challenging specially for those companies that you Recon, right?
45:11
And we talked about before like when we're conscientious about letting the customer know what parts are going to be difficult.
Yep.
And we talked a lot about the silent phase.
Sure, you know, when we're working out scope and stuff with, with the carrier and whatnot.
It's really frustrating for the customer not to know what's going on.
45:27
But if we tell them up front with, Hey, listen, there's going to be this weird, pause break or it's going to feel like nothing's happening on your job.
It's gonna, I promise you, we just experienced going to be really frustrating.
Yeah.
If you like it, when the hell are they going to get in here and start doing some shit, right?
When we articulate the frustrating points.
45:43
We know are going to happen to the customer when it happens, but I call this, what you're talking about, right?
There is so much less emotional reaction from the customer and has true for all of us.
Yes, I was went through my own water damage loss.
I talked about it, a shit-ton on the podcast and in part of my frustration and angst is it was just that.
46:02
Yeah.
Like there was very poor expectation setting.
Yeah.
But when were just really clear about what's true, you know we're just talking about telling the truth to our people and ourselves from this, a big part of it.
Like we can all most of us can adapt to what's true.
46:18
I think so.
Get through it.
Yeah, you know, here's a, here's another tool, I think to layer on here, and I really think this is probably the superpower, and I'm still figuring this out.
It's probably a journey.
I'm going to take for the rest of my life.
I'm honest with myself and that is just getting better at leading through questions.
46:35
You know, one of the things that, you know, we've talked about this before.
But wisdom, man, those people who I, just admire, I don't, you know, sometimes it's hard to put your finger on it, like, what is it?
Exactly that makes you just respect and admire that person and one of the Things that I've seen in those people that are almost, just put on a whole new.
46:51
Level is great asking questions and like their knee-jerk response is to ask a question, their immediate response is to ask a question and I think about that in terms of this relationship with the burden of command is part of the ultimately.
47:07
What we have to do, again the principle is were asking people to do hard things.
We're asking them to perform at a level, that's not congruent with the masses, right?
We're it's hard to say.
Circumstances all the things.
Well then we when they can't or when they look as, if they are potentially failing to meet the standard.
47:28
We have to ask questions like when someone comes to me and I've identified they haven't executed on something that I've asked them to execute on and they give that knee-jerk response about time as an example, because this is what we hear all the time.
47:45
I didn't have time, I didn't have time to work on that this week and we lose our mind and we start making assumptions.
But what if we asked questions first, what if in conjunction with Gathering our data?
So that we're prepared for the conversation.
48:02
What if we also just came in prepped to learn something, learn something about the circumstances, learn something about our person's character, learn something about their life and the complexity that makes them a whole person.
What if we showed up ready to ask questions so that we can dig into the details, because here's what I see happens more times.
48:21
Times than not.
That person's excuse and quotes that they gave you for them was real.
It had real implications to their performance, whether it was partly in their head or not is irrelevant, their perception.
48:38
Was that thing prevented acts from being able to get completed.
Isn't the real thing that we're trying to do there?
Then is teach them ways to overcome a similar experience in the future.
Grinding them down belittling their experiences or proving to them in your story.
48:55
How much harder it's been for you and you overcame, it is not the fucking answer, ask him questions and find out what is going on in their head or their personal circumstances that created that failure, because that's what we're going to teach on.
49:10
That's where we're going to make the Tune with our person and equip them, potentially, or coach, and consult them through adapting.
So that they're better and better equipped for the next opportunity.
You're not going to get that if you immediately need jerk off of assumption.
Or again, you come in guns blazing because you're so much bigger better and faster than they are.
49:31
It's amazing when you learn what is hindering, your peoples performance.
Because what you often find out is, it's not that they're a C+ player there, an A+ player, they just don't got the equipment.
Not yet, like, they're still in their developmental Journey, just like all of us are right?
49:47
And when we can ask those questions in hard times, it gives us the ability to coach and Mentor them through skill sets that they can adapt and use next time, right?
Take a think of some of those questions, right?
Like what if, when somebody fails to meet expectation we started from a genuinely curious position of what?
50:04
Got in the way.
Yep.
What got in the way?
Yeah.
And, and really listening for Jim Guthrie, Talks about this and I just love it because it feels like the only way to get good at this.
He said, when somebody gives you feedback and employee gives you feedback, a partner gives you feedback instead of starting from the starting from the place of, is this feedback, true irrelevant.
50:30
Like, starting with that filter, it's instead, discipline yourself to ask, how is what they're saying, true?
How is this true?
What they're telling me and hunting for the truth?
The nuggets in it, rather than hunting, for a reason to discredit or or blow off their feedback.
50:49
And so it's like somebody fails to meet performance standard or fails to complete a project or some other timely thing.
We say well, what got in the way and really being curious and listening for those things that maybe you can influence and have an effect on?
So that thing isn't in the way?
51:05
Yes, I'm yeah.
Or like I think of another question that comes to my mind is what would need to change?
Yeah, this next week, In order for you to be able to huge complete that hard and really be curious like, what are they going to say?
Because they may have the answer to six other people on your team that missed the expectation as well.
51:25
And then we can fix that.
And they're equipped with what they need in order to accomplish that.
Right?
But so, it's so easy, right?
Especially when we did it.
Oh yeah.
Oh well, what the hell's your problem?
Yeah, I did that thing.
Now for context though, how often are we talking about?
51:42
What an achievement.
We had 10 years ago.
Yeah.
When the company was twelve people and we had three jobs a day coming in.
Yeah.
Versus now we have 25 jobs, add a couple you know what I'm saying?
I fish context is different but we just rip that out.
We're like, I did it.
51:57
Why can't you do it or even a 12 on stability to the carriers in our relationship?
We gosh, Everything's changed.
Yeah, when I was a right run, you know estimator project manager like I was a grinder man.
I put my time in.
I could manage a lot of Revenue.
But if I'm honest with myself, the level of Competency, the level of communication, the level of need, that the carrier relationship and the client relationship, they're adopting, they're getting their increasing.
52:24
You mix in.
TPA is all the things.
So now, the burden of these roles if I'm honest, is more complicated in many ways than it was when I held the same role, 10 years ago or sure he's maybe, but I think more importantly, the reason I think this concept, so important for us to wrestle with, is that at the end of the day, Day.
52:42
How good are you at learning and adapting by somebody telling you do better versus actually giving you a concrete solution to learn the like ask ourselves that question.
Hmm.
If a person is put into two circumstances and we're banking on which one will produce the outcome, we're looking for how many of you would bet on the do better versus actually providing tools resources and opportunities to get better and get the outcome you want which one?
53:12
Which one would you put your money on while I'm putting my money on the one that comes with some Concrete Solutions?
Not the fucking do better.
So ultimately, what we choose to do in terms of managing the burden of command, when we are directing people to do hard things if our response is do better, instead of asking questions and then providing some solutions, some input, some coaching on what kind of tools are opportunities.
53:35
We have to deploy do the math.
Yeah, right.
Like, like, do the math.
Okay, dude.
Well, Preeti on this one dude.
But I think it's relevant.
It's really relevant girls and guys like with anything we talk about do not hear us accusing.
53:51
Now this is this is a lot of ways is funny.
This is a form of self reflection for you and home.
And it's like, I'm I'm recounting as we cycle through most of these episodes, we're reflecting on our own behaviors, some of which were even recent, you know, it's like it a lot of this is totally current guys.
54:09
We have a team.
Yeah, we have a team that's all over the One of our Personnel is not even in the US and I have expectations.
Yeah, we are a growing company.
We have to move quickly on our feet.
We have to be nimble right now, we all have to do more things than we've got time to do.
54:26
That's just the name of the game.
Yeah.
And I have to be good.
Yeah, bouncing that burden of command, and asking my team questions so that I can give them tools to increase their efficiency.
I mean, do we have creatives?
54:42
Right on our team guys.
If you've LED creatives it's one of the most challenging things I've ever had the honor and opportunity to do.
It is growing me.
It's stretching me because creatives don't operate the same way that us.
Utilitarian, you know, operational drivers.
54:58
Do.
It's a different Playbook.
It's a different set of circuit.
Tell if you're talking about me or our technical or actual creative team.
Yes, the answer is yes, Chris.
So there's realities right?
Where if I just Throw Down The Gauntlet and I'm like, do better.
55:14
I'm not gonna get okay, when we beat that one up.
Okay, guys, thanks for hanging out with us on this one.
Now, let's do it fight.
Let's really quick recap.
So there's a reality.
When we take on the mantle of a formal leadership position, start a business, become a GM, you name it.
You will begin to balance this weight or the what they call the burden of command, and in that you're going to have the responsibility to drive and coach and lead your team to do.
55:42
Hard things and hard environments and often not supported to the extent that we would like to be supported.
That's just the reality of the hard Parts about business.
So when we do that there's a couple of things that we have to do one is we have to have a grasp on the fact that we are asking humans to do hard things and it's not just them that's impacted by that decision.
56:02
It's our company as a whole.
And just, as importantly, it's their sphere of influence.
It's their families, their friends, their commitments outside of your brand that are affected by it.
It.
And so we have to deploy tools that will equip us to lead folks through that successfully.
56:18
One of those things being, don't be afraid to communicate the reality of how hard shit is going to be.
Don't be afraid to proactively prepare and manage the team to deal with those hard circumstances.
Create rotations create ways for us to create an end in sight so that we can coach and tell our team.
56:37
It, we're almost there.
We're almost there, right?
And then this last Pieces don't Lord over your team to push the performance, don't put them down.
Don't try to compare their experience to your experience.
Don't bring the on bigger better faster.
56:54
So do better bring the I'm going to come ask questions, I'm going to find out what it is specifically.
That's preventing my team member from being successful in this environment.
And then I'm going to offer some real Concrete Solutions and coaching on how to help them adapt so that they can Be better.
57:12
Next time.
Thanks for hanging out with us to, that's good man.
Listen if you if you like what we're but now if this stuff like it connects with you, it's valuable movie.
We get text messages from folks, we love that.
It's fun.
But the best way you can thank us is by sharing sharing the head heart and Boots podcast.
57:33
Tell your friends about it, check out our website.
Obviously, if we can support you with some one-on-one consulting or project-based, you know, Consulting coaching work.
Or you want us to come out and do an on-site leadership, turning or commercial sales Master course for your team's.
But but certainly a way that we'd love to work with you, but we appreciate your listenership and would covet any sharing of the head are boot podcast that you're motivated to do well, by the way.
57:58
So we've got, we have new shirts, hot off the press.
Ready to go, I stickers on the way, oh and user, wow, awesome, some new series, where we what are we looking at here.
So today is the first second.
This is the 2nd of March.
So throughout the month of March, what I'm intending to do is if you guys leave us a review of obviously a five-star by the way, just hint hint.
58:21
If you leave us a five star review on any of the platforms or on Google, we will put your name in a drawing and we'll be issuing out a few shirts this month at the end of the month.
So we'll act like you're gonna get a proof, you're gonna get a shirt, your get a shirt and you get a shirt.
58:37
Oh my God.
No, no.
So, so leaves are going to do to our pnl this month.
Yeah.
That's right.
We'll have to identify like how many we're going to give out.
Once we get some folks, starting to throw the reviews in there.
But that's what we're going to do.
Probably run that off and on throughout the rest of the year.
And these are our, I love it.
58:54
Love this industry shirts.
So if you guys haven't seen that, that's fun, they're Super Rad.
So don't credit to Jannah for the US.
Come to the IDE X and the stickers are nothing to their super fun.
So they're super swaggy.
Yeah.
Okay, thanks.
We'll see you next time.
All right, everybody, he thinks As for joining us, for another episode of head, heart and boots.
59:15
And if you're joining the show, be loved this episode.
Please, hit follow only known as subscribe.
Write us a review or share this episode with a friend, share it on LinkedIn.
Share it, via text, whatever.
It all helps.
Thanks for listening.
As for joining us, for another episode of head, heart and boots.
And if you're joining the show, be loved this episode.
Please, hit follow only known as subscribe.
Write us a review or share this episode with a friend, share it on LinkedIn.
Share it, via text, whatever.
It all helps.
Thanks for listening.