0:07
Welcome Back To The Head heart and Boots podcast.
I'm Chris and I'm Brandon.
Join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses we leave this industry.
Hey brother, it's tough.
Are you kind of try to jump in there and beat me a little bit?
0:26
But you know what, I really enjoy.
I can see.
Like there's a lot of options for me to choose the right if it's true.
I'm in a very enjoyable state of the moment.
But I am staring out our window through the curtains there and I've seen billion shine Yasin.
There is a ball of Fire in the Sky.
0:41
We've had a sunshine deficiency.
Bill, that is just sort of part of our lived experience here in the Northwest, but the high was supposed to be 59 today and no rain.
Well today, what I am really looking forward to getting my different shade of red on that.
I get to part your summer.
Look my subjects, your cherry tomato, some are Lush my wife gets like all live and I just get more Shave, six bread.
1:05
How did that work out?
Do you?
That's exactly a scenario.
My wife has his olive skin gets nice and brown in the summer.
I just get more red and the white boy yet.
Read or her wear pink.
Yeah, okay, there we got jaw jacking with get to the show.
Come harriers.
I've gotten older to just kind of disappointed and all those things.
1:21
Yes, bomber, it's all right, so just skip or tattoo, we get here, we get before, we keep bullshitting.
Let's thank our sponsor.
Something to work out of the way, right?
We've lost God's already work.
We really love our sponsors.
Let's talk about lift.
If I I'm taking like, hey, let's go for it.
Could almost call Em licked if I know because that wouldn't be the same.
1:39
It is interesting.
So look that up, lift don't type in liquefy.
Difficult type.
That don't hold us responsible for it.
Anyways, there is no /of, anything on that, just so we know.
Oh good lord.
Do we need to start having like a child disclaimer?
A few - Unison their daughter.
1:55
Well, I was thinking about that the other day, maybe because I had like a relationship sex example or something.
I'm like.
Wow that's not part of our sponsorship read, okay?
That has nothing to do with Zach's company.
Okay, on another note, Rift, if I Google reviews.
Yes, you know, it's interesting.
2:10
Lift.
If I is not just for a small full-service company, we were talking with a mega million dollar restorer in our area and we ended up talking about lift.
If I recently with them and they're like, oh my gosh!
We suck!
It converting, the it was really take you out.
Yeah, yeah, I think sometimes we can tend to think, oh, it's a small business.
2:29
We don't have time for this or that, but even companies that have entire marketing departments, the theoretically would be totally hammering down on Google reviews.
They aren't necessarily getting a better result from that either.
And so lift, if eyes created a solution where we don't have to be dependent on our Frontline technicians to generate Google reviews, obviously, it should still be part of our process and expectation were asking for reviews, all that kind of stuff.
2:51
But it takes the pressure off you relying on their compliance to convert these Google reviews and let's face it.
You can't chance it this day and age.
With Google's algorithm, you can go back, you can listen to our podcast.
I asked with Zach Garrett, you can listen to our podcast with been at Ironclad restoration Market.
3:10
He said the same thing, right?
Google reviews are incredibly important, organic search results.
All of us are trying to get found by people hunting for water, mitigation leads, and all that kind of stuff, right?
So if you don't have lift defy, and you're not getting right now, 20 to 25% of your jobs giving you five star Google reviews.
3:27
Go to lift if I.com forward slash floodlight write the solutions right there.
It's very, very affordable.
Brandon, I've talked about this before.
We've hired those big fancy Silicon Valley, goo review platforms, and we got like five percent conversion.
You're spending hundreds of dollars a month on those platform services.
3:44
Will, if Vice come in here and at a lower price point is generating 20 to 25 percent conversion, and we've seen it in our clients.
We've seen it in our business.
Yet it's helped us completely overhaul.
Our review presence on Google, and we've watched organic leads for people, looking for Consulting from flood light, coming off of that as our Google reviews have built up.
4:03
So If you don't have lift defy, you owe it to yourself to have a demo with them and explore them as an option, dude.
You know what I'm going to critique you a little bit there and a good way.
I think.
Okay, passionate on that one.
I like the fire in your gut.
Did you hear the juice?
I did.
4:19
Well, you know, when I looked and I saw we have like 30 14.9 or five star reviews on our profile and gets.
Yeah.
Hell yeah.
It gets you Jess.
Yeah.
Alright, see you in our magazine.
Gosh, I'll tell you what, talked, about in the front of the line.
Holy cow, man.
You know, obviously we're in the midst of what we call this as I convention season, right?
4:37
Like all the big companies and entities are putting on their conventions and seeing are obviously, is front of all of it.
And we were just doing a text exchange with her about her booth at plr be man, it was awesome point is is seeing our magazine guys in terms of true content, like there's stuff there that we can use that has an impact on us.
4:55
So I was just reading, I literally this morning, I was reading the article about from Ed Ed cross, and there's a pretty in-depth article about a suit, that was one against all.
Not banging on All State but in this particular case it's a very clear example of frustrations.
We all have around our billing and statements being made about what will be allowed and won't be allowed.
5:15
And of course Ed just gets into the rock and roll of it and it's the in our magazine they're publishing that content and its content that actually helps us.
You guys know how we feel about seeing our and especially know how we feel about Michelle and her team but guys like the validations are the contents, not BS.
It's not just to get some eyeballs for marketing dollars.
5:33
They're providing Content.
That's actually applicable and useful to us.
It's really good.
It's a voice in the industry for us and so pay attention to that and of course, we love the continued support from her and her team, and we'll do whatever we can to be in their Corner because of what they do for our industry.
5:48
Okay, dude, let's get into this topic.
You want to get the lay of the land for us.
Yeah, the topic I kind of want us to revolve around.
Today is Clarity.
And I think as a leader we were just talking about this kind of a category of thinking as leaders.
Is that whole Henry Cloud principle that we talked about a lot, which is leaders will always end up.
6:11
Like, you're always going to get some combination of what you create as a leader.
You know, speaks to intentionality focus.
All that stuff.
What we create as a leader and what we allow them as a leader, 100% what a powerful mental model for us to think about leadership in those terms, right?
6:29
Yeah.
And it's crazy to I remember, I'm going way back.
I remember.
Some training that we were starting to adapt to at one of the original companies that you and I did some work.
With some work, we are almost there for a decade.
Anyways, part of that development of our teams, we really hyper focused on developing, some internal training and leadership development.
6:48
And I remember early on when we were kind of putting that curriculum together, one of the things that I remember us having an experience with another professional, where we got some training, we were probably at like some kind of summit or something and we got training around communication, communication styles.
Things like that.
7:04
How it impacts our teams and our leadership.
And that was one of the very first things that I wanted to introduce into.
Our curriculum was teaching, our team members, this more develop skill, soft skill around communication.
And one of the biggest factors of that was establishing, the reality that good communication is actually a scenario where you close the gap between what your audience is receiving.
7:31
Yeah.
And what you intended, which are put out, right?
I just remember how wakening that was for me, because I think we're all communicating all the time and were assuming what the audience is hearing.
And we don't really know specifically and what we've learned over the years and for some people they're like duh how big that Gap can be 0 and we really can't comprehend why, right?
7:54
We've got some good examples today and so I think we will title this in some fashion as creating Clarity that's our theme.
Yeah, I think.
So how do we create clarity?
In all the different spheres of our life.
Because again, if you follow floodlight, you follow our head hardboots a gorgeous, huge Believers.
8:10
That the me that I bring to work, ought to be the same me that I bring home to my kids in my family, right?
So, creating Clarity, it's not just for being a more effective, professional or leader, right?
It touches everything.
We got four stories.
That's the ground.
We're going to cover today, is how do we create Clarity?
And if you're okay with it I'll start with kind of our sales example.
8:28
Yeah.
Because I think Clarity is a really really important aspect of Of the sales work we do.
I was just thinking, I'm going to throw something.
I before you go into that specific example, can we just give you know, I think for some folks like they get it, they connect the dots.
8:46
But can we just think about like let's call it three, four, five different ways that this creating Clarity benefits us benefits us as Leaders as individuals, right?
Like just kind of the, why, why should we care about this?
9:01
And then I think it'll be fun like you were going to is Kind of looking at some of these examples in these different areas of our life.
Now the first thing that comes to my mind of why is Clarity so important and how do we prioritize it, like how do we think about it right?
I have a story in my head at all times.
9:18
Yeah you have stored in your head at all times.
I mean mine might be better than your story but there's definitely a story Scott or other senior consultant.
He has a story has a story in his head and sodas are creative, director, Jana and sodas Avon, and my wife does.
And my daughter does For my son's do.
9:35
What are the main reasons for clarity is?
We can move through the world.
We've talked about this idea of sleepwalking from the outside.
Looking in, we're a successful professional, maybe an owner, a general manager, a professional mom, where a teacher were a, whatever, whatever our role is.
9:51
But on the inside, we have these things, we do that, we're just not even conscious of clarity.
Oftentimes, we are acting on the stories in our head rather than moving.
Based on Clarity.
Yeah, that I think is the default behavior.
10:08
That all of us have is, we're moving within our businesses within our relationships, based in some part, on the story in her head, our mind is skillfully filled in the gaps where 100% confidence in what we know our instincts what my gut tells me only to find out most of us that it's a very imperfect picture.
10:26
Yeah and I think oftentimes it's in our work that we first discover that but certainly in our relationships and I'll I share maybe a little bit later, how my wife and I married 21 years today.
Congratulations 22nd at right thousand to they didn't marriage.
10:43
It's equally as important because again, it's just another aspect of our life, right?
Yeah, I think for me, one of the areas that kind of popped into my mind.
Very first thing was, we were thinking about this was in our businesses, right?
What do you and I do we're Consultants right?
So our primary goal when we partner with somebody is to help them create systems and processes, right?
11:03
And adapt.
Ship capacities and competencies so that they can create a kind of business that's like, hey, this is a solid Elite performing business that I love and I enjoy being a part of old man.
Sometimes one of the biggest things that we see when companies get stuck or lose traction is, there's just a lack of clarity on where we're going, what we're doing and why we're doing.
11:22
And so, I think those of us really in general that are looking at our own businesses and frustrated, maybe do a certain extent.
Well, this is one of those places.
There's a strong chance that somewhere in Those ranks.
There's a lack of clarity and it could be about something specific like, or charge or org structure or training or whatever the case may be.
11:41
But the point is, is that somehow in our interaction with our teams, there's a mixed message somewhere, there's a lack of clarity.
You know what, I was thinking of, as you are unpacking, that we have to keep in mind how relationship there's really two different Dynamics, but I think tend to sabotage Clarity, one is power dynamics.
12:01
Oh yeah, we had probably even talked enough about this.
Actually, because I think in leadership, this is one of the things that we just totally forget, is it if I'm a general manager, or, I'm a VP of sales, or I'm a mitigation that when I walk into the room, most of us don't even consider it this way, but the reality is, is that in that leadership seat, I have the power of life and death over my direct reports, and, of course, I'm being dramatic.
12:28
But right?
Like, I could fire them today.
Sure.
Yeah.
I could get angry about something.
And, and just it's of course, more leadership, but I have that Authority.
Yeah, as part of that leadership seat to take away somebody's livelihood, and there's a ton of Downstream effects of that, right?
12:44
For the person.
Like, when they consider that my boss could fire me.
I would potentially be embarrassed to go home to my wife that day.
There's all these Downstream effects of the authority that I hold, is a leader.
Sure.
And so when we ask somebody who's a downline employer team member whether they're clear on Been or what they think about something and they give us a response.
13:06
If we haven't gone above and beyond to establish a safe container where they feel like they can actually share what they are really thinking or experiencing we're often only going to get a version, yep, of clarity.
Yep.
And they just won't offer all of their response, right?
13:25
Or I think more often than not where we see this Clarity breakdown.
Is people will tell us yes to something.
Hey we often is leaders or speakers.
Us when we're going through an agenda or were sharing something in front of our team or a group will ask for clarity.
Chrissa, hey everybody, cool, everybody with me so far.
13:43
Everybody get it.
Does this make sense all that stuff?
And I think culturally there's a knee-jerk response that all of us are programmed to give, which is yeah, the socially acceptable answer in front of your peers is yeah, I totally get it.
13:58
Yep, that's one of the things were fighting is the power dynamics, right?
So anytime somebody is up in front of the room there.
Is a power Dynamic.
Even if they're in front appears, because the person in the front of the room, there is Authority, granted in that moment.
And so there's a lot of social pressure to just say.
14:14
Yeah, I get it.
Yeah, rather than saying no, I have no clue what you're talking about, right?
Very continues the dots format.
Right?
I mean think about that your last team meeting or all company meeting when you did that we like hey is everybody cool, everybody understand what we're trying to do here?
How many times did somebody raise their hand?
And I say I have no clue what's going on.
14:32
I don't understand what you just said.
No one says that, right?
That's part of our problem.
So, there's power dynamics, and then there's relationship Dynamics, which is going to come into play.
When I share a story about my wife and I last night before our 21st anniversary and I could go into this morning, but I'm not as we had, you know, it's so funny.
14:51
Ironic life is, but relationship Dynamics.
Play into this too and more personal lives and in our work lives amongst colleagues and peers, there are Mine Fields that we develop in all of our personal relationships.
And of course, It all comes from the stories in our head, and our ego, and our wounding.
15:06
And, you know, it's all the stuff we bring to our relationships, but I think we lose track of it sometimes.
And so it's the same thing in personal and professional relationships.
Forget the power Dynamic is peers.
We oftentimes, we make a lot of assumptions.
We make a lot of assumptions or when we ask for clarity.
15:22
Again the same types of things that motivate us, when we're in front of our boss or something else to just say, yeah, rather than getting into it about why we're confused or we don't like what we're hearing unfortunately.
All those things kind of conspire to sabotage Clarity in every area of Life, hundred percent.
15:40
All right.
So what about sales man?
That I mean, obviously, you've kind of been talking about the power dynamics, you've been talking about kind of this employee-employer relationship.
Yes, I feel like the most obvious place is when the lack of clarity shows up in our sales relationships, where have you seen that?
15:57
What's that look?
Like?
It's a lot of ways, lack of clarity shows up made holy cow.
Those stories are endless, where are we?
Leave the table was somebody with a lack of clarity we think we have Clarity and of course that's the biggest problem is we think one thing and the truth is something else.
16:13
Yeah.
Or some percentage of it is truth, right?
Here's one very simple scenario like when you and I meet with a potential Consulting client we have our own sales process and we potentially fall victim to the old Clarity issue as well.
And one of the things that you and I do that we like to do with our potential clients is take the temperature.
16:32
So we have a whole Process.
When somebody comes to us, usually they have a reason a presenting problem that they want help with and we have this discovery conversation.
We ask a lot of questions.
And one of the ways that you and I try to establish clarity as we say, at the end of the first call.
16:47
We ask them we say, hey, based on what you were hoping to find in a potential partner.
Based on the questions you were hoping to eat answer today scale of 1 to 10. 10 being.
Wow, you guys have answered every question.
I was hoping to get answered.
It seems like you guys offer everything I want.
17:03
And Roubini.
Yeah, this doesn't feel like the good fit.
This isn't the right direction.
Or do you feel like you'll?
And yeah, where are you at?
When you.
And I remember to integrate that in, we don't get lost in the conversation, which all of us do from time to time, that is an incredibly effective question.
17:19
It, lets us know exactly where we stand with that person and then, of course, we ask follow-up questions.
They also say what they're going to say.
They said, well seven.
So what would need to happen for you to get from a 7 to a 10 and is that even possible, Right?
We ask those kind of questions that teases out.
17:36
Well, maybe their objection is they keep thinking about the money because we haven't talked about the money yet.
Okay, well, so if the money was in line, how is the rest of everything we talked about line out?
We've learned to ask really good, follow-up questions, which I think is really important in sales, but it's also kind of a key factor in all of this Clarity piece.
17:52
Is you generally can't get clarity without asking follow-up questions?
Yeah, to get it.
It's pretty rare.
That any of us hear something, the first time we look up, I totally understand.
Yeah, in fact that's the mistake we mostly make.
Literally, we just got off the line not that long ago with somebody that's talking to us, about setting up 401ks and things like that for our employees.
18:10
And yeah, and I had to ask a million questions, man.
Oh yeah.
There's a lot of details in there and it's confusing.
I'm wanted to make sure I had Clarity around what we were committing to and not committing and that's an interesting example, right?
Because most of the time we're in a group, there's some kind of group thing, even if it's like, in this situation where we're meeting with a financial advisor and that it had, uh, I have a little Bit of a background and that's tough enough to be dangerous.
18:36
Yeah, enough to sound it will fight it enough.
That my ego gets activated like I kind of know what we're doing here.
The reality is it's been years.
Yeah.
Since I've tried to sell a 401k or a Roth IRA or something like that for one of my clients and so in a way, we got a little bit of a power differential or knowledge Gap.
18:52
You know, you've never really been in that space.
I mean you've had to learn as a GM as part of the whatever business but I have a little bit more knowledge but the reality is that knowledge is very old, I'm not quick on the draw.
With it.
And so there's even more potential for lack of clarity because I can say things that make it seem like, I know what the hell I'm talking about to the financial advisor.
19:12
If he makes too many assumptions, we could be totally sideways.
He's like God, these guys are in and they know exactly what's going on.
Know, we probably don't, we don't ya, you know what I mean?
Everything about this few months ago.
Now, we did one of our project manager episodes been that one got a lot of plays but you know, again, what was one of the things that we focused on is just that clear, proactive, communication and regards to managing In that relationship.
19:34
And of course this comes up all the time.
I mean this lack of clarity thing.
It's very interesting when it rolls in and takes advantage of us, like we're working with multiple teams, we have over the years, there's multiple teams where conversion closing rate between we had an EMS opportunity, we went out and produce a mitigation jobs-- critic and then we're just for whatever reason, there's an air gap that gets created and we're really not closing.
19:57
And turning, those EMS leads into Recon, jobs are rebuilt jobs and when we get in and start working with companies and Find what's going on.
It's never a malicious intent.
It's never, we don't care.
It literally ends up being more than not.
There's some kind of lack of clarity in the handoff in the communication that then prevents us from taking advantage of these opportunities.
20:18
We've already spent money and we talked about it with teams all the time is, you've already spent money to get that phone to ring.
Now, we just simply have to take advantage of and make sure we provide a full Suite of services for that particular customer and Negating.
20:34
That and establish Clarity around that from the beginning, I think the other place that we see this show up all the time is just our relationship to training and developing personnel and we Hammer a lot on OJT and the fact that yeah we gotta do that.
But what do we do with it to make sure that it's clear and that we're setting standards and follow-up and stablishing.
20:54
Protocols and all those things get it's a Clarity issue right?
It's what we want someone to be learning, may not be what they're learning and so Have to establish Clarity around those expectations and whether tools and resources that are available to make sure that we provide it.
21:10
You bring up that whole conversion from it to rest, O is a huge thing in our industry.
There's a lot of businesses right now.
You're listening to this and you're converting, it may be 30 or 40% of your jobs.
You may be leaving Millions.
Yeah, of dollars on the table for your business.
21:26
Now, sometimes people are making proactive decision, of course, right.
And we've done that over the years or absolutely, there are great reasons.
Ins to not take a Recon job.
Sometimes, right?
That's a whole nother episode.
All right.
Yeah, and nine times out of ten.
It's because what we learn about the customer through them it is this really a client or it's a carrier or whatever and we just decide this is not a good opportunity for us but the point being is that that's a huge source of clarity Gap.
21:53
And we talked about this relative to sales that whole conversion thing.
In our belief, much of that conversion permit to Resto starts at the very initial response.
Applause.
Yeah, it's in that initial conversation with the homeowner, the business owner, whatever.
22:08
And one of the pieces of clarity that most of us just walk right.
Past our technicians are crew chiefs whomever is in that conversation with the client, is we forget to ask this is sound like a broken record.
Some of our clients and people in the podcast.
We've heard this many times.
I hammer on us the way that we handle that initial response of the customer has the potential to give us enormous clarity about the project in front of us or If we fail to ask certain questions and gather, certain information, it creates an enormous opening for confusion and sabotaging the project.
22:42
And here's the.
Number one, question that we teach that they should be asking in the very initial approach.
Mrs. Jones, have you ever been through something like this before?
Just incredible source of clarity right there in that one single question, because if somebody's been through a significant homeowners lost before, chances are, they're more familiar with the insurance language.
23:03
Restoration language that we potentially use.
They also have some potentially negative or stressful experiences that we want to understand before we trip over ourselves and create the exact same negative experiences.
And it also helps us understand how to explain the process to them most effectively so that we get the Recon along with it.
23:23
We talk a lot about that.
It's like, look, we're a full-service company.
We're going to hold your hand through this entire process until the final plus construction cleaning.
We're here for you are going to help you navigate the process, dada dada da but again Most of us are many of us are losing that conversion because we don't have Clarity.
Yeah, it comes out, clear?
23:39
Okay, yeah.
So on the sales side, we could make it more fancy and we could get all nerdy on it.
But I think it's all about that check-in.
It's all about whether it's a stand-up conversation with a hotel GM in the middle of their Lobby, or it's a formal sit-down in somebody's office.
23:55
It's checking in with them at the end of that.
Me and say, hey essentially, did you get what you were hoping to get out of this interaction?
Yeah.
Did I answer the questions?
Knocking around in your head.
Is there anything else tugging at your sleeve that we haven't talked about and PARTA to of having Clarity in sales arena is creating a container at the front end of.
24:13
Hey, after we get done here and my goal is, I want to make sure your questions are answered.
I want to make sure the things are reported to you guys.
Actually get talked about because I have things are important to me to get out to you guys.
And then that check in at the end is just hey, where we at, you know, one of the questions we've even asked our clients.
Hey, is there something here is there something here for us to have another meeting on?
24:31
AB c-- is a really honest way of asking.
In a question press.
I think a lot of salespeople feel so much pressure to just like get the next thing before they say no, you know, it's like create interest.
Anyway, we can so we can get the next meeting instead.
I think party getting Clarity.
24:47
Is this the willingness to kind of sit back in your chair and say, hey, is this working for you?
Are you into this conversation?
Am I addressing some concerns or needs that?
You have sure.
Are we missing?
Yeah, I think kind of what some of these examples or whatever the ways that they impact our business.
25:03
From portions of our life.
I think what they totally summarize to is these handful of impacts negative impacts, of course, there's the opposite to all of those negative impacts when we do actually create Clarity.
But I mean, think about it, we lose Traction in progress, okay?
25:19
Like if we're making some kind of system change process adoption, whatever the case may be often, it's going to be some lack of clarity somewhere in that process that really grinds gears and slows progress and it a lot of cases ultimately just ends up being another initiative.
Of we've talked about but we can't do anything with it.
25:36
I think we see real Financial costs that are measurable.
When we have lack of clarity things like closing rates conversion rates.
How often are we really maximizing by up selling almost all our Recon opportunities?
Like, how many people want to put their house together?
Exactly?
The way it was before you showed up.
25:52
Mmm.
Okay.
Granted.
It's a brand-new house but most of our projects buildings houses they've been around for a while and some kind of t.i. or improvements is necessary.
So again there's He'll monetary cost to a lack of clarity within our system, things like, employee turnover, lack of Engagement.
26:09
Again, it comes most times, you can boil all those things down to the fact that there's some kind of understanding Gap about where we're headed and how we get there, right.
And, you know, we work with a lot of Fairly large teams and Clarity is probably the number one issue affecting their organization and these are very successful team, but when we get in there we look at it.
26:29
We're like, okay, here's the opportunity, it's almost always Clarity and We end up one of the very first initiatives typically will do is looking at or chart.
How is this organization set up?
Is there Clarity in terms of job descriptions roles and responsibilities?
And often, there's not right because as we grow really fast, everybody puts on multiple hats, you just adapt and over to Dobson over.
26:49
Calm.
But then we have clients, we worked with where there's a real lack of clarity who reports to who, yeah.
And as owner sometimes you think it feels obvious but then when you talk to the downline people it's not they have multiple people to reporting to Yeah, which is really messy.
27:05
It creates more drama, but it also just makes people feel insecure because they don't know who to please, or they just choose the wrong person, right?
They inevitably partnering or seeking advice or direction from a peer or potentially somebody from another department or under directly related or whatever the case may be.
27:23
And it's like you can't really get connection between their direct line supervise.
The person actually responsible for their and and again we talk about power dynamics, sometimes.
It's really difficult for an employee to to create that Clarity themselves because of the fear.
So and so is a little bit testy or you know, gets Easily Aggravated.
27:40
I don't want to bring this up to them, it's fine.
The way it is.
You know, it's like leave well enough alone.
Don't poke the Bear, right?
There's all these things that whether it's worth it or not.
I think sometimes is owners, you know, we discover these things after the fact.
Well, why the hell didn't you just come talk to me.
We have one particular owner that it's like, they never even brought it up to me because they were intimidated and it's like, we forget the power.
28:01
We have, it's really important.
Portent.
I think in establishing Clarity that there's an element of posture and body language is really important as Leaders, especially when there's a power differential as like, I think part of the practice of creating a safe container for the person in front of us at times.
28:17
It's even it's shrinking our profile a little bit.
You know, it's lowering our voice, it's creating a little more safety.
When we may be a real intense, our driver person art of trading safety to achieve Clarity is making ourselves more approachable.
I think it's part of it.
A frenzy listeners.
28:35
We're doing some little bit different with our ads.
So you've been a customer here in some ads with our favorite partners, and companies in the industry.
Now, we actually have a product page Partners page on our website, so, floodlight grp.com forward slash Partners.
Want to give you a quick rundown, though, if the people that we're partnering with and we believe in as really go to resources in the industry.
28:53
The first one is restoration, ER, p.com, right?
Erps are an important part of our sales process, our customer development process and why Reinvent.
The wheel, the restoration Erp platform is awesome.
It can be customized to your business branding, and all that kind of stuff and has all the components to really create a value.
29:12
Add for your commercial client, accelerate job management software.
Everybody needs job management software and we have just found accelerate not only is their team like just really great to work with.
When they get ideas from customers, they throw it in the, the product roadmap and they implement it, they're really advocating for the contractor and trying to create a software solution.
29:33
Works for them actionable insights.
We recommend actionable insights all the time, right.
All of us is restoration.
Operators are looking for TurnKey resources and training solutions that we can take our team to the next level and AI when it comes to estimating and matter poor.
29:51
And a lot of the other essential tools were using, they're an awesome resource and they're always coming out with new great stuff.
Yeah.
Super influential in the industry.
Super Tech University soft skills, development training for your Ins, for your Frontline Personnel.
Let's face it Frontline Personnel.
30:06
Are the heartbeat of our company.
They are the ones that connect with our clients and create the customer experience.
There's no better investment than investing in the ability for those individuals to represent themselves our clients and our brands.
Well, so super Tech University Surety, they essentially are cutting down this life cycle between delivering service and then getting paid stepping in removing the middleman in terms of mortgage companies, A pipeline making sure that it there's at least friction as possible, so we can go out, do a great job and then our businesses don't suffer what we're waiting to get paid.
30:41
The money is coming, and it's coming quickly.
And then, the last one guy's is lift a Phi, is kind of a newer entry to the industry.
They're driving Google reviews.
So there are TurnKey partner that we can literally go out, provide a great customer experience hand that name off to our trusted partner and lift up high and have them go chase that Google review, 25 percent conversion rate which is Industrywide.
31:04
People tend to average, 5% of people.
You ask for review, actually, convert lift.
If I bumps at 225, we were such a big believer.
We are a customer and they've been generating all of our floodlight reviews and in a matter of a week and a half for up to, I don't know, cousin, 15 reviews.
I'm just a short period of time.
So and I think people just underestimate what happens organically with your SEO search activity.
31:24
When you're getting these new and active five star reviews from our clients and we just can't let the pedal up on that because of the effect on our face is long trip.
Also check it out.
Check out our partners page do business with them.
You won't regret it.
We're confident in that floodlight grp.com forward slash Partners.
31:42
Thanks guys.
I think you've kind of turned the corner a little bit here in the conversation.
I think we should just keep rolling with it is what are some of these tangible things that we can do to continue to focus on and create Clarity in these kinds of scenarios, right?
31:57
You talked about it with sales, that whole taking a temperature, I think that's a perfect example of a tool or resource that we could boy, that's not rocket science.
It's simply being honest, right?
And I think one of the powerful things that you're displaying, when you give that example of just taking the temperature asking the Client is I think you also diffuse some of that ego stance and that where you're like, okay well they're the ones presenting and they're the ones pausing for a second and saying, hey what's your understanding of this as this Landing?
32:26
Are we headed somewhere here?
I think it empowers The Listener than to be more engaged and say like, well, okay, well your Center asking versus them going off into the nether, so silently and US never hearing from them again, or the case may be.
I think other things that I've been taught over the years, especially as, like, for instance, in Education or training or interaction with Personnel is really doing a feedback establishing a feedback loop and saying hey what did you hear?
32:53
But we've just been discussing let's say an update to our methodology about estimated whatever.
What did you hear from what we've been talking about and then doing that whole peeling back the layers of the onion based on that first response.
And there was a point in that that I asked an open-ended question because you and I do this a lot like when we're presenting and training.
33:13
You feel me, are you Going where I'm coming from.
And that literally is a yes-no answer, but something like, hey, what did you hear in our exchange so far and having them almost do a summarization of what they've picked up on.
Oh man, that is given me so many opportunities over the years to go.
33:28
Okay, hold on, that's not what I meant or no, that's close.
But let's provide a little more color there so that we walk away with a similar understand.
I was just kind of feverishly writing some notes as you were talking.
Here's one.
And this is that more proactive stance is leveraging.
33:44
Setting expectations as part of how we're creating Clarity and again this is effective in all types of relationships that we have professional personal, family employee-employer, sales, prospects, all the things.
33:59
If we can do a good job of and you teach this a lot in regards to like setting up the sales meeting.
Like you literally open very specifically with setting the stage of the expectations as we know them right now for what the meeting should unfold like and You again, leave room like hey is this agenda aligned with what you were hoping to do?
34:18
Is there anything here?
You want to add?
That's massive to establish the clarity.
You've proactively prevented a lot of space that people will get spun out to create that lack of clarity.
I think we can do the same thing when it comes to like client relationship.
34:34
We show up on the first day of the job helping set expectations.
You and I talked about a lot, the silent phase, right?
Where things are going to feel a little lame for a while on that Project Life Cycle.
But again, if we can proactively set that stage and create Clarity around, hey this is going to happen, is what we do about it.
34:52
It's so powerful.
It is so powerful and preventing that from becoming an actual issue, right?
Yeah, that we lose Confidence from the client where I think a lot of times as leaders were in some state of fear of how our audience is going to react.
A lot of times I mean, as leaders were regularly faced with situations where there's no awesome option.
35:14
It's like the lesser of two evils we get in a tight spot or there's just something dangerous or urgent or whatever.
It's like both options are going to suck a little bit.
This one sucks a little bit less but we're in front of the audience and we're just a little afraid of what the reaction is going to be, and how it's going to impact more Rowell and all the things in our sales focus and everything else.
35:32
And so we're almost afraid to hear what people think of it.
Yeah which leads to confusion and misconceptions and misunderstandings which perpetuates and which amplifies Amplified fraud.
On of how that message landed.
But we're timid, is this like we don't want to poke the bear either, whatever.
35:50
That means we don't want the conflict and drama either.
And yet sometimes avoiding the drama creates more of it.
I think, vagueness and job descriptions.
Vagueness.
In accountability.
Org charts.
I think if you have any gray and scenarios like performance like what is performance expectations look like what is me?
36:10
Delivering a wind look like again.
These are huge areas in our Business that we create Clarity gaps that really hinder and cost us again.
You know, you bring up a good point.
Because so many of the people listening to this are likely in some kind of growth curve Fred's.
Sure.
Like there's obviously MMA, there's all this.
36:26
Everybody is chasing growth right now and I think with that, you end up with people on your team that become kind of these Jack of all trade resources and maybe you opened a second location or you're in a massive hiring Blitz or you got all these You're changing your business and inevitably, you get people that emerge on your team that are capable of a lot.
36:49
And so you just start, assigning them all these projects and they just kind of become this project person on the team.
I think we've had employees like sure and it's not a negative in the moment but it becomes a negative when you start to stabilize after that growth and they've worn all these hats.
People see them in some cases as this executive figure, but they aren't necessarily tasked with that Authority.
37:09
But they've been moving and all these different areas of the business and people continue to kind of Use them like little, we'll all call.
So, and so for that and all of a sudden behind the scenes, this person is experiencing burnout overwhelm, they feel like they report to seven different people and it's like, anybody ask them for help.
37:26
They need to help and there's a certain amount of ego in there.
So they don't say no, this is, It's common, it's but it's a lack of clarity.
Again, it's like, hey, my job is Mall of this stuff.
If you have somebody on your team like that they may be the rock star.
They may be your right-hand person but have you taken time To give them Clarity on who they're responsible to what they're responsible for.
37:49
These are some of the reasons why people burn out and they leave our industry and they leave our businesses because at some point they are incredibly valuable in the like comment.
I just need a little bit of a break.
Yeah I just need to go get him myself, a 9 to 5 and there's someone out there that's willing to pay them to give them until we find their.
38:05
Yeah the be the position player that doesn't have all that stress and confusion with a, you know, I mentioned that I wanted to talk about this in the context of personal.
Oops.
Yeah, because I didn't say context.
It was a that seems a little bit like a Freudian, probably like context instead of content, he hasn't sex.
38:24
We haven't quite cross that threshold in this podcast yet, but I'm sure it's coming.
That's actually my wife.
And I yesterday I mentioned on the podcast couple months ago, I bought a sauna.
Yeah, install the song at my house Barrel sauna and I did it for a variety of reasons, but mostly just Health, sonnets are good for all this in that supposedly right?
38:43
For Times a week, 25 minutes at such-and-such temperatures, like all these studies blah, blah, blah blah blah.
Okay, so I'm one of these excitable.
I'm a passionate person.
I find my things and I just get all into it.
My wife bless her heart.
Thank goodness.
My wife isn't a carbon copy of me.
39:00
I don't even know what kind of mess.
My life would be.
If my wife and I were both Visionaries and like idea Adventure people.
So I find these things out.
I'm like, honey, we gotta get a sauna, I just do get a sauna but then it isn't just that Out.
I want her to be as excited about it as like for Health and Longevity and all these benefits.
39:19
Heat shock proteins.
Come on honey.
Just come sonosite.
Yeah, I'm psyched.
And I'm trying to get her psyched and inevitably she's never quiet as psyched as I want her to be.
So anyway, last night we've had this on and now for maybe six or eight weeks, I go to heat up the sauna for our evening soak.
39:37
And I talked to him like, hey honey, you know, sun will be ready in about 30 minutes and she's like yeah, I don't think I feel like doing this on it tonight.
Okay.
Why you know like and she's like well I need something to preoccupy me in the heat she gets really overwhelmed by the Heat and it's uncomfortable like you don't go in a sauna to relax by a hot tub.
39:57
We want to relax a sonnet like there's some intentionality to it I find it relaxing afterwards.
It's kind of like going for a run.
Running is miserable for me, but I do generally I get that feel good thing after a good workout, right?
Yeah.
Same kind of principle.
This is not a Leisure activity and social She always wants to have Gilmore Girls on or something like on her phone, just to preoccupy her brain and I'm like, cool with that.
40:22
It's uncomfortable for me to long story short.
The last few times, we've gotten in the sauna.
I would just start up, like a YouTube video or something, some distract her.
So, last night, as we're talking, I'm like, why don't you want to go in?
She's like, well, you just kind of have your thing you like to do, like sometimes you just like to sit quiet or you just listen to music like I need distraction and you kind of have your own You want to do and so let's just do it separate.
40:46
I'm like, well wait, whoa, whoa, hold on a sec.
I'm a total romantic.
I'm a total squishy guy.
And I'm like, wait, honey.
I like this, like, this is valuable to me, as having our sauna time.
So what is it?
You want to watch Gilmore Girls.
I don't have a problem with that.
It's cool.
You want to watch Gilmore Girls the first season for like the ninth time in a row.
41:03
I can't baby.
What about it?
Let's just go do our sauce.
I think she's like, I was like, God, what is going on here?
So that it turns out there's more to it.
She said, honey, can I just have my own song?
Oh time.
I'm like well, yeah.
But please tell me.
Why does this sound familiar to any other?
Married couples out there.
41:19
It's like I want an explanation, honey.
Why all of a sudden are you not want to go in the sauna with me?
So long story short, the conversation goes from our kitchen.
To our bedroom.
I'm like, getting ready to go in the sun.
I'm like, honey, just level with me.
What the hell's going on?
It's like, well several times.
Now you've been standing on the back deck in your underwear, waiting for me and I feel pressure, like I'm not moving fast enough for you, like you're ready to do sauna now and it's just become this whole stressful thing.
41:43
Like I feel like You want to listen to Gilmore Girls plus if I'm not ready to go in the sauna at the same time as you like you don't want more hot air to escape.
So you don't want to hold the door open while you're waiting for me.
So we got to both go into the sauna at the same time.
It's a whole thing and it's stressing me out.
I'm akane.
Why didn't you just like talk to me about this a week ago or two weeks ago when you started to feel this whole like stressful thing around going in the sauna?
42:07
I would love to hear her version of this story and compare it to yours.
I think I'm actually being pretty honest.
I mean, it's Like okay, I've been a bit of a dick.
Like, I realized that I do that.
We have a sliding glass door off her master bedroom and a deck.
And then we have this on out there and so I'm like standing out there.
42:23
She's seeing me in the glass.
I'm staying out there in my underwear and I kind of am tapping my foot on my Connie.
What is taking you so long to let people clothes off?
Let's go.
Like, you know.
Yeah.
Okay.
You want throw your swimsuit top?
Okay.
Fine, let's go in at the end of it, right?
First of all, I was starting to get a little irritated, like, why didn't you just talk to me about this?
42:41
Which of course, is part of the issue is my irritation.
My general impatience.
And so finally, I get what's going on, Mike, honey.
Okay, bear with me for just a minute.
Okay.
First of all, I don't care what we listen to Gilmore Girls.
Second of all, I need the distraction to, I may seem like, I'm so into this whole Santa thing that I love it.
42:59
I don't love it, it's like I'm doing it for the health benefit.
It is hard for me to get through the 25 minutes to.
So you and I are on the same page there.
If we will listen to Gilmore Girls for the next two years in the sauna, I'm okay with that.
Are we clear on that?
She's like, okay, I just figured you wanted to watch your YouTube video.
43:14
No, it's just because you can figure out what you want to watch.
But then inevitably of the time, I find some on YouTube, then you're already pulling up the episode of Gilmore Girls that we've listened it, but I don't care.
That's the good news.
I don't care.
Let's just start with Gilmore Girls from now on don't care and I said, as far as the foot tapping thing, I'm such a dick.
43:31
I'm sorry.
Yes, I'm so impatient I get it.
You're exactly right, I'm impatient.
And I'm like look honey, here's the deal.
Let's do the next few sauna sessions separately but then, let's try again.
Can we try again together?
Gilmore Girls?
I want tap my foot to specify, you me the g girls you know?
43:47
So I wish there was like some fantastic outcome where she's like okay honey all right and we have this media might know, we didn't go in the sauna together.
Last night I've sorted by myself.
My point is if it's not already self-evident, right?
My wife had a story in her head about what the whole sauna experience was to me.
44:04
What I cared about what I was committed to, I was committed anything, except going in the sauna.
And yet she had this whole story.
I always had this whole story when I was getting Her resistance about like, I'm feeling misunderstood and all these things and over the period of about 40 minutes, we finally were able to get clarity.
44:23
But I think part of it was, I was starting to get all ramped up and we're starting to do this whole like acceleration of things.
Yeah, and thankfully I noticed it and I was able to sort of bring my voice down slow my speech like all the stuff I was it will be sympathetic a civil here her and we were able to finally connect the dots but that's kind of a picture of What conflict.
44:44
Looks like for my wife and I is it both of us just get these stories or head stirred up.
And we think that there's a Minefield that we're sort of avoiding when a lot of times the mindful was created in our own heads.
Yeah, one or both of us felt like the other person was hyper committed to a certain perspective or a certain thing.
45:03
Yeah.
And then when we actually have finally come to an understanding we realize okay it was 70%.
Reality is totally true as tapping my foot like to Total dick.
Come on, honey.
What's taking you so long?
You know, it's like we stripped down or under when we go in the thing.
45:19
I was totally being impatient because I'm an impatient person.
A lot of the other stuff was just in her mind, and of course, is probably predicated on previous conversations we had and all.
That's it.
Just goes to show though, how quickly these things spin out of control and I think if you look at that isolated experience and it's got real clean edges and it's like, okay axyz, right or ABC, but I think what happens in our businesses and our working relationships Client to prospect relationships, is there more subtle?
45:47
It's just these little lacks of clarity.
These little misunderstandings that we allow to be produced and then it really does it creates all those negativities a creates, the friction and creates a loss of Revenue loss of profit margin.
We turn people over, we lack engagement like it really does.
46:05
Come back down to these key elements of just creating Clarity in our understanding.
It's not lost people on the same.
P.s.
I mean Absolutely, it's not lost on me, by the way, that at no point.
As I'm telling this somewhat revealing, an embarrassing story about myself and my natural tendencies at no point.
46:24
Did you say?
Oh yeah, Jana and I deal with that all the time.
Yeah.
Because I've never had that problem, son of a bitch.
Yeah, yeah.
Alright.
Let me do anything myself out there.
It's time to do counseling.
Will Square.
You Away?
Really appreciate the yeah.
No, we'll play you really crystal clear, I really?
Oh, yeah.
I hope you and Jenna can impart some winning strategies for my wife and I really look forward to that.
46:43
Now, I understand why you started with the context.
Sup man inside context today.
That's what I'm not going to be having tonight though.
Okay.
Grew hopefully did I mention is my anniversary today?
Yes.
We've lost the control.
I really think one of these days, we should get our spouses on the episode and they just run it and they kind of set the record straight.
47:04
Well what a lot of bubbles out knows my wife.
Actually unfortunately probably for her she has to listen to every of yeah it is a lot of post-production.
Yeah interaction so she's probably heard goodness.
So So we should Land This Plane.
Listen, for those of you who have been following floodlight the head heart and Boots podcast for a while.
47:21
If any of this holds value, the best thing you can do is share it with your friends, subscribe.
So you go into Apple podcast app, right?
You can click is it follow?
Yeah.
Apple still called it follow.
I think as follows.
Yeah, instead of subscribe on Spotify.
We also have a bunch of listeners on Spotify as well.
47:38
So if you're whatever platform but subscribing or following whatever the deal is sharing with your friends, when we post our Recaps are a little Snippets you know on LinkedIn sharing those out on your newsfeed.
It makes us feel good.
Well, us-india all honesty think about this then this is just full transparency.
47:55
We need your help.
Draw on the show.
One is it's growing and it's growing rapidly and we're very humbled and excited about that.
It's fun for us.
It gives us the wherewithal to continue to invest energy and time and that but more importantly guys, is that us talking to guess and just saying hey the show's great people, love it doesn't The Sara Lee move, the needle doesn't help people find us.
48:16
Yeah right but as more and more people are actually subscribing and formalizing that relationship with us, it gives us more Authority for us to bring in more and more gas and this year, Chris and I intentionally started the year a little bit more solo and not bringing in a lot of Industry specific.
48:34
Guess, we've had a few, we have a few more coming up, but we really are try our goal.
We're just being really transparent with you guys.
Our goal is, we want to continue to attract Bring more voices that are more well-known and or have more traction in some of these other Industries because they have a lot to share with us a lot to teach us and those numbers mean something to those folks, right?
48:55
When they see that there's engage listenership and that there's followers, it really gives us much more of an opportunity to leverage that relationship and bring some new people into our industry and expose our listeners and our partners to some of these folks.
Yeah, it really does help move the needle.
Yeah, it really does.
49:11
You know, these authors and speakers And business Executives, they're in high demand and so they start to differentiate, where do I want to get my time to write?
So yeah, that's awesome.
If you and your company on a growth trajectory and you're looking for a partner to consult, coach advise, equip we certainly looks talk to you float light as well.
49:30
You can go to floodlight gr p.com, check out Services, see testimonials of other clients.
Learn about some of the other services and things we do other than that till next time, we'll see you.
All right, everybody.
He thanks for joining us for another episode of head heart and boots.
49:47
And if you're joined the show feel of this episode, please hit follow only known as subscribe.
Write us a review or share this episode with a friend, share it on LinkedIn.
Share it, via text, whatever.
It all helps.
Thanks for listening.