0:07
Welcome Back To The Head heart and Boots podcast.
I'm Chris, and I'm Brandon.
Join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses we leave.
What you think it was kind of serious.
She laughs brother.
0:26
Yes, dude.
I have a topic.
I'm actually really excited about.
So I was good.
I intentionally told you not to tell me about it because we kill some of the Bye.
Oh, yeah, rescission horror.
You don't even know if I'm coming from left-field or right-field on this one.
Trusting.
You want to do?
I know.
I know I'm not a consistent listener, but I do listen to the entree.
0:45
You're not wrong, dude.
You're not a consistent listener.
Sometimes you son of a.
Okay.
Listen, I'm sorry.
You just watch our.
I feel like I set up a t-ball Stan, set the ball on it.
You did, then walked away and pointed at it so that you could take full advantage when home didn't, I?
1:04
Okay.
Start over apologize.
But we can we get back on task, please.
I'm going to, I'm going to remember that forever.
Okay, Entre leadership, let's get back a task.
I'm blown off by your your.
I haven't listened to a podcast, actually, for well and I don't listen to it a lot.
1:20
I think at times it feels just a little too, like, reduced, they are very consistent with what they do, how they do it.
When they do it, the Rhythm that they have for it and it just sometimes it kind of comes across a little too.
Package.
My preference with podcasts in general.
1:37
There's exceptions to this.
Like the knowledge project.
Yeah.
My preference of podcast.
I like them to be a little bit more unscripted.
Yeah, I think so too, our rough-and-tumble.
Yeah, I agree with that.
I totally agree with that.
Oh, by the way, hey, we're gonna hey gang.
Those of you that are listening, we're actually going to start something a little bit.
1:54
New feels awkward for us.
Probably feels awkward for you, but we're all going to get through this together.
Chris, and I made a commitment to each other with the show.
We love it.
We love doing it.
We really liked the experience that we have in this more long form to hang out with you guys and talk about topics that are relevant to our businesses and not necessarily completely restricted to our industry or you know the kind of nuts and bolts topics.
2:17
Anyways that being said you know that the easiest way for us to get more listeners to have more opportunity to hang with you guys is if you see value in the show, if you're actually getting something from it, sure it friends family people in the industry, people at yours.
2:34
Help us out.
We're going to be a little bit more, diligent about asking you, folks for that kind of support, as we continue to grow the audience, and really work to make sure that we continue to have the freedom to do this and spend this kind of time with you guys.
So, like I said, we're not really great at that, and all of us get a little bit uncomfortable with promotion, but we really enjoyed doing this.
2:54
We hope it brings value for you.
And if it does, please bring somebody else in so that we can share that experience with them to, okay.
So anyways, back to the topic.
So I was listening to Entre Chip.
I think how they pronounce it and they had a gentleman on.
He was a big CEO and Co o rolls with some of the big companies.
3:12
For instance, the conglomerate that owns like Kentucky Fried Chicken.
I like young Pizza Hut.
Yum brands.
Is who it is.
Yeah, exactly.
Because they have a, um, a word.
Okay.
So it is down but it one of the things that they were really dialing in on is that this particular gentleman and it in the show notes, will add his name?
3:29
I apologize that.
I don't have it often took my tongue here but they were really talking Thing about like his secret sauce his magic that he brought to the industry.
Was this focus on employee recognition, Okay?
And I we've had some discussions about this in the past and some shows that talk about it.
3:46
So I'm actually going a little bit different direction here, but what I really appreciated about what he was saying is that he used this term coaches instead of leaders a lot.
And there was something that really resonated with me on that particular item little inside joke there between Chris.
And I currently, I have speech problems when it comes to resignated.
4:04
And I just did it beautiful.
That's beautiful.
Anyways, it resonated with me that this guy was really talking about creating coaches instead of bosses managers and just leaders.
And so, it got me thinking about something.
We have a dear friend in the business, for name's, Amy Shannon, Pinnacle leadership group.
4:22
She's a very HR directed person.
She's got a rich background working with large corporations specifically on this HR and staff development side.
She's Pro you and I both were Not to have her as an executive coach at some point in our work history and our professional development.
4:39
And she really taught me a lot about this coaching Consulting, right?
And a lot of ways, it was my experience with her that kind of set the stage for where we would end up going with our professional Focus.
But one of the things that her and I spent a lot of time talking about was creating a coaching culture.
4:57
And one of the reasons that she kind of more formalized that or was bringing that up more intentionally was she saw Some natural gifting or skill set in some of our team, the way that we developed our leadership team.
The way that we communicated with one another and work through challenges, she just said hey this is very similar to and looks a lot more like this coaching culture and you know we did double down on that we formalized a lot of that commitment and we taught tools and resources to our team to be better at coaching their staff.
5:29
And so anyways I wanted to hang in that zone today.
I want to talk about What it looks like to create a coaching culture within our companies and what the effects of that are potentially on our business and specifically creating bench depth, right?
5:46
The succession planning that we can do within our organization.
And so that's that's kind of where I want to hang this morning.
If you're cool with it.
Yeah, totally man.
You know where my mind immediately, I think inevitably we're going to have to like we're going to go here and then we're going to go there.
We're going to kind of bounce around a little bit on the subject, but you know where this this takes me is a theme.
6:06
I guess a phenomena that we've seen a lot both in ourselves but also with the clients that we work with over the years and and that is as owners a lot of times as we're struggling with how to with how to coach or how, to course correct.
6:24
You know, team members develop them grow them, help.
Equip them with the stuff they need to do, what we need them to do.
And to grow in the company often times, we struggle To take those thoughts, hint, the narratives in our head and communicate that directly to our people was, what am I trying to say?
6:43
We are having a conversation with one of our owner clients and it's so funny because they love they can always tell when we talk about them on podcast, but nobody else can, of course, but we are having a conversation about an employee that they were really struggling with and it's a quality person, there a good addition to the team.
6:58
But man, there's just a handful of behaviors that they have just Gold to consistently deploy, you know and it's messing with the Mojo, the team, right?
Because there's parts of the processor not following blah blah and so as the owner as we're talking through this and the owner was sort of, describing the story in their head, several times, over the course of several sessions.
7:23
You or I, or both of us were like, hey, we'll just say, Bob, Bob, have you said it to them just the way you said it to us.
Well, All and then there is almost always a pregnant pause and look well no, not exactly.
7:39
Yeah, right.
And and we said why is well, you know, I don't want to offend them or I don't want to push him out the door.
I don't want them to think that their, their jobs being threatened or something like that.
I said, well, it didn't feel that way at all to us.
It sounded direct and it sounded honest.
7:55
It was very clear the way you communicated that to us.
Have you ever been that clear with them about how your Seeing them what?
The net effect of this.
Misbehavior is what have we kind of danced around it?
Yep.
8:11
Or and so I think that's a really interesting point for us to make is as owners sometimes.
Maybe part of it is is that we're just High Merchant and we're so we're so fiercely committed to diplomacy and and not risking the relationship that were afraid to be totally clear and honest, which is some of our issue.
8:33
My Yeah.
Mind generally more.
I think the other reason why sometimes we do that as owners and we tiptoe around issues and behaviors is we have desperation brand.
No.
Yeah.
And we're like and many of us are in that.
Oh I would say.
Yes and often it's both.
8:49
It's like we don't want to burn a bridge.
We don't make somebody mad at us and we don't know how we're going to replace that role in a short term period.
But what's interesting as an outside Outsider looking in in these conversations, right is most often when we're talking with owners in the same kind of context, they don't sound offensive, they don't sound threatening, it's just very clear like, they're communicating really clearly how they see the problem.
9:16
What they believe needs to happen and yet somehow we struggle to deliver that same exact message or story to our people directly and we never give them the benefit.
Yeah.
A full clarity.
Yeah.
And that's one of the things I think you kind of hit it on the head because I think a lot of times We think about company culture, we think about valuing employees, and those kinds of things, it's easy to come from this perspective where it almost feels like, we're trying to defend against malicious intent and the reality of it is, is over the last probably 12, 13 years or if I go back, like military in the whole kind of 20 plus years of being in leadership roles, I think I can count on less than one hand.
9:58
The number of times I actually came across a leader.
A man Manager with poor intent like where they really did see themselves at a different value level than the other human beings around them.
Right.
Most of the time, it's a lack of confidence in the role.
10:15
In this coaching mentality, I guess is clear.
That's the issue.
It's not that people don't respect their employees, right?
I agree with you and I think there is a little bit of a dark side though, that you and I have seen and frankly I've lived out and that is When we let this go, too long, right?
10:34
Where were we find ourselves unable to have that.
Clear.
Clear conversation.
What inevitably happens is, bitterness?
Yeah.
And resentment starts to set in towards that person and so and we think that it's all contained in our own head.
Yeah, we think that nobody notices.
10:51
Oh right.
They were unhappy with their performance or was unhappy with some aspect of their work of the behavior.
Until at some point, we can't contain any more and we're ready just to like lose it.
It.
Yeah, screw it all like I need to get them out of here.
It really isn't a form of like passive aggressive, but it is I think it is and people don't realize that we don't realize it because again again it's not intentional.
11:12
We're not intentionally trying to damage that relationship or harm our business but it's it's all these things going on in our head.
Yeah, it prevents the conversation but then ultimately triggers anger and I think anger is a it's important part of this conversation.
Like it makes me actually think of my relationship my daughter, which I've talked a lot about, I love you Lily.
11:31
But truly, when I'm able to give my daughter, clear feedback after I've processed it and thought about it.
And I'm able to deliver or ask those questions without anger.
It makes a hundred percent of and she can tell, she can tell us, we have like thin, leave a like if she can tell I'm kind of matter for us to.
11:50
She can read that from a mile away.
Yeah.
But if I can settle myself, if I can think through, I can get rid of all the shoulds.
Yeah, this should be different.
This should never have happened.
Which Is part of what causes that anger, if I can just let go of all of that and just bring the story in my head to her without any anger attached to it.
12:10
Most often she hears it.
Yeah.
She can hear it now.
I mean, there may be a process of the green or negotiating.
Oh yeah.
What we do next?
Yep, but she doesn't automatically clam up.
She clams up when she senses my anger and frustration.
And I think that's probably true of our employees to yeah.
12:27
Oh yeah, right sure.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I think that is the, that's Like a major part of the challenge is that we have I think, in many ways, a misunderstanding of, what's the healthiest kind of relationship to have with our employees.
And so we end up kind of falling into these categories of distancing ourselves and being very transactional or we fall into this space of overly relational where there's a lack of accountability or a temptation to not really breathing as you like to say severe and clear feedback and so there's a couple of things, I, kind of want to set the stage.
13:01
Here, I think, before we go into some of the nuts and bolts of this is I just want to remind all of us and this is really important for me to and you just a great example with your children.
I think it's same with mine.
Like my kids, I have adult kids, right?
And there's this transitional relationship that we're in is some of the ins and outs of how we do life together is definitely looking different, but one of the things I've noticed is that over the years.
13:25
As my kids, get older, they're more capable of giving me feedback on some of those coaching experiences or Driving experiences that we had in our relationship and our past and really, for the most part, most of it's been effective.
Like, and I'm not saying that to like toot my own horn because the reality is, I messed up a lot more, probably more than I got it, right?
13:45
But this hard love almost is important it teaches it stresses the right things, it brings focus and attention to the right things and more importantly it provides Clarity on expectations.
And so one of the things I just want to Encourage business owners, and key leaders on is like, as part of this conversation is, if this is new Behavior, it's going to feel awkward.
14:11
However, if we get consistent, at establishing really clear expectations and we establish a coaching relationship with our employees which we're going to Define better here in a moment.
We're going to find out one of two things.
Either a we're going to find out that that team player is the right team player.
14:28
They've got the Mojo and now that we're providing Clarity on What we want, what we need in that role now that we have this mutually beneficial relationship, that's beginning to get established.
We often and more often than not will see the kind of success that we want and then that individual and return gets to experience winning on my team.
14:49
And so I think that that is going to happen more often than we think, when we provide more clear and feedback and we really establish this coaching mentality, but I think the other thing that we will identify as well is that we've got Someone that's not coachable, that's not willing to learn.
That has too much of an ego in place for them to continue to advance and or be willing to modify behaviors and actions to win to succeed.
15:13
And the reality of it is, is it doesn't matter how nice you are, how mean you are, when it's the wrong fit, it's the wrong fit.
And when I say wrong fit, I mean that individual does not meet the DNA requirements for them to succeed on the team, your building, and that's okay, because they may go to another organization.
15:31
Actually outside of our industry and and find a home in that great.
But how many of us want to develop a business full of employees that really do not have a learning mentality?
A driven mentality a coachable mentality where they're constantly providing feedback that helps us and they're really good at taking feedback that helps them like if you're not that individual most of the teams that I've been a part of and wanted to create it, just meant you weren't a good fit and that's totally fine.
16:01
But it's also totally fine as a leader to admit that and understand that some people won't stay.
And that's okay.
There's some coaching mentality.
I wanted to find coaching a little bit because a lot of us have heard stuff leaders, and managers.
And of course, Clint Pulver, I love his perspective on this, this marriage of accountability and relationship connection, he calls it.
16:22
So being a coach and creating a coaching culture to me kind of starts here.
And I'd like to hear your perspective on it.
It's very similar to the kinds of relationship that you and I have had over the years regardless of what position we were in in terms of title.
16:39
Okay?
It's this kind of dialogue.
That is, hey, Chris, I really like, the way that you handled this situation.
Here's what stuck out to me and that particular event, right?
You really took charge of this, you did a great job of proactively, setting the stage for me to come in and know what my purpose was in this meeting.
17:01
Ting.
And there was this challenge spot in the conversation that I felt like we lost we lost momentum.
What was your thought process during that part of the conversation.
Where were you coming from?
Oh, interesting.
Okay, here's my feedback, right?
It's this idea that we have a dialogue where we're not skirting any part of the conversation because it's uncomfortable.
17:25
We're just talking about it.
Almost in a tactical way.
Meaning this happened, these things were Rate, we talked about this in after Action reviews, but then there was this section.
I want your input.
First, talk to me.
What were you thinking about?
What did you see?
And then I'm going to provide some guidance or some coaching, from my perspective, it could be because of my time and grade, my experience.
17:46
I've got a little additional Insight.
It could be, I was just emotionally a step back from you and that particular conversation.
And so I had a little bit more visual continuity and what I was witnessing, right?
But it's this idea.
I think when we think about coaching leadership, it's this idea of we are going to be very very diligent calling out the attitudes, the behaviors, the actions that align with the goals of the company, okay?
18:14
A right.
Just like a coach on a sports field, would be very diligent about calling out the drills that it requires to succeed and when he sees he or she sees that activity, we're hootin and hollerin were getting excited.
There's high fives.
There's there's the things right.
18:31
And then also, what do we see a lot of coaches do?
They're very good at drilling, they're very good at asking questions.
They're very good calling out in us.
If we're going to be a championship team, we need to act like Champions and champions do the right stuff at the right time can system, which means we have to have direct conversation when we're failing to meet that standard.
18:54
Right?
So I know again, Clint does a great job.
I think of marrying this concept but for in my mind, Coaching is coaching.
It's it's being very deliberate about highlighting what we want to see and what success looks like and in turn its very diligent on hey this is a problem area, we need to solve this together, right?
19:18
And then it's my job as the leader to provide the resources, the time, commitment, whatever it requires to do, enough drills to prep up that individuals weakness right with them.
And that could be A department leader, it could be I send them to training.
19:33
It could be I sit with them a couple times throughout the month and I in that could be where somebody's concern is with this, but that's where that relational coaching opportunity comes into is that I see you, I see you as just equally great when you're doing awesome stuff and I also see where you're challenged and I want to have input and that and I want to work through that to help you make up for that weakness in your skill set.
20:00
I How does that land with you in terms of kind of that coaching mentality?
Well, I think what I hear you saying describing is a mutually respectful.
Yeah interaction.
Yep.
Whereas I've made the mistake.
Many many times is probably my, my knee-jerk behavior when it comes to coaching is to assume that I have a perspective.
20:21
They need to know.
Like, I have a right perspective, going into that conversation, and I'm going to just kind of try to coax them over to my perspective.
Sure, and I don't know if anybody else gets kind of stuck in that where it's like, when I go into a coaching conversation, giving somebody feedback on maybe some negative behavior, I saw, or whatever, I'm going into it with the intent of showing them or helping them see the negative behavior.
20:45
I saw versus the way I heard you approach it, and I think it's better is to go back to that situation.
Unpack, the story in their head, in your head and invite them to to bring their own.
21:00
Clarity, what was that situation like for you?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because I think inevitably there's a lot of times I experienced this with my wife, and my kids and other relationships.
And certainly in the workplace is, there are other things going on, but I'm unaware of yep, affecting a person's judgment affecting a person's sense of urgency affecting a person's mood, right?
21:21
All the things.
Yeah.
And I think when as a coach you really ask these open-ended questions without Targeting a specific answer.
Yeah.
Is it it helps us figure out new things about how that person process that situation.
21:38
How are they thinking about it?
Yeah, because they may have been thinking just right, and they just kind of their skill, hasn't caught up with their judgment, right, right.
It's like they were thinking about the situation, clearly.
It was just kind of a skill thing.
They didn't know, the best way to say it to that person or whatever they procrastinate it, and that's what created the problem, you know?
21:56
I mean, and if you're, if you're wanting to adequately teaching, Train somebody IE you want to help them get better in this area of weakness if we make assumptions about why somebody did a certain thing we may not be hitting the mark.
So when I go to do my teaching, my training, my coaching, I may be teaching to the wrong thing.
22:16
The other thing that happens in a case like you've described as I think people shut down.
So if right out of the gate, I start talking at and I clearly show, I didn't have an understanding of it from their perspective.
They've stopped, listening to me before.
I've even Gotten into any, you know relative points.
22:32
Yeah.
Because they already know what you're about to tell me.
And they assume what you're about to tell me is not on Target because you didn't even understand the situation in the first place and they go into defensive mode and protection mode.
Either catastrophizing, what's going to happen from?
Yes, my going to get a write-up is like What's Happening Here?
22:49
Yeah.
They can't hear, they can't process.
I think that happens a lot.
Yeah.
In and I certainly, I know I've led into those conversations and I've seen the consequence of it for sure.
Sure.
Alright, let's take a minute to recognize and thank our MIT Resto Mastery sponsor, accelerate restoration software, and I'm fully aware, by the way that when I say those last two words, restoration software that that instantly creates heartburn for some of you out there, right?
23:18
Because we probably all fall into one of two camps.
When it comes to software, we've either cobbled together, kind of a version of free website, tools and spreadsheets just to make our Work or we're in the camp where we've adopted one of these existing restoration platforms, you know, one that has all the bells and whistles and supposedly does it all but we can't get our team to consistently adopt it and input information to it.
23:46
Yeah.
And that's really where accelerate has honed their focus.
They've created a system.
That's simple.
Right?
It's intuitive and it focuses on the most Mission critical information.
IE guys your Team will actually use it.
Let's talk about sales, right after years of leading sales and marketing teams.
24:06
The biggest trick is getting them to consistently update notes about their interactions with referral partners and clients.
And the essential piece there is, there's got to be a mobile app experience and in our experience this solutions that were previously out there were just too cumbersome and and tricky to use.
24:25
Yeah imagine guys how your business would change if your entire team was Sleek consistently using the system.
Do yourself a favor.
Go check these guys out at Excel restoration, software.com.
/M RM and check out the special offers they're providing to mrm listeners.
24:45
All right, let's talk about actionable, insights owners GM's.
You can't be your business's expert on all things estimating.
You might have been three years ago when you're writing sheets in the field but the industry's always changing and so are the tools.
If you're the smartest person in the room, when it comes to exactement matter Port, how does that scale your the bottleneck?
25:06
I know I'm preaching to the choir but this is where actionable insights comes in.
There are technical partner that can equip your team with the latest bleeding edge information and best practices, and then update them with webinars and training resources, when the game inevitably changes.
Again, for this reason, we recommend actual insights to all of our clients, yeah, three of the kind of big things that stuck out to me, when being introduced to AI in their team.
25:31
First off, is this consistently updated training.
I mean, at the end of the day, these guys are the experts, they're out front all the time.
They're constantly learning new Trade, Secrets and ensuring that your team's got access to those things.
A 3,700 plus page database of Xactimate templates.
25:48
I don't know what else to say here other than don't reinvent the wheel.
It's already available, download it, copy it, use it, bam database of commonly missed items.
I think this is huge.
So any of us can change the numbers by just moving the needle.
26:04
A couple points and those commonly missed items.
Can make all the difference in the world so go check them out at Value dot.
Get insights dot org, backslash FC G.
You know, it kind of reminds me of something and I, you know, will bounce around a little bit here, but I think eventually the ship will land, right?
26:24
This kind of reminds me a lot of teams when they're reviewing their PLS.
You know, whether you're a Service Company of any kind whether you're in our specific industry, it can be easy for us to look at our business and want to be on the most Skeleton Crew possible the most efficient team size to maximize the amount of Revenue that we can produce and still save that ibadah, right?
26:47
Which is great.
That's good business 101.
That's fantastic.
But I think the struggle that we have.
When we literally, every person's last minute is used up in order for us to produce the consistent, the current workload.
We have no way to build in bandwidth to be coaching and teaching, and proactively engaging our personnel.
27:08
And we've made them an object that, well, into a degree, they know it.
And that's why I see it on Facebook.
I see, even see it on LinkedIn all the time, as that, I think.
There is a general narrative in American Business amongst employees and I think Millennials are driving some of this conversation.
27:26
Sure, that we as business owners exploit our people.
Yeah, we get it.
We try to ring as much out of them and there is truth to that.
It's like we're trying to maximize.
We're trying to make people's efficient as possible, the right butts in the right seats.
There's all this narrative around it, but I think if, if we aren't if there isn't Love built into that equation.
27:46
People feel like they're simply a cog in the machine.
Yeah, I like ends up feeling that way.
It doesn't mean we have to like completely reorient ourselves and say, well, it doesn't matter how productive each of my employees is right.
It doesn't matter if I have people in the right seats.
28:01
Well, of course, that's not true, but I think part of building this coaching environment is that it's adding that love and that employee Focus back into that equation.
So, So, I'm having Theo van, Mackenzie who's what past executive coach and now friend.
28:19
He loves this topic coaching and he would say coaching has to be about the person that's receiving the coaching, or it's not actually coaching.
I love that.
So there's so there's management with.
So we can get clever with management about how we do after Action, reviews and how we're saying, you know, things to our employees.
28:42
But Coaching is truly about being oriented on what is best for this person in front of me.
Yeah.
And I'm either absolutely committed to that which could ultimately mean this person doesn't belong in our company and I'm going to watch Talent walk out the door because either, they don't enjoy this work, they don't feel good about it or there's something about our values or our standards or something, that just don't mesh with them and we have to let them spread their wings and fly somewhere else, right?
29:12
That's the Some of nature of coaching is helping others, get what they want.
Yeah.
And helping people grow in the areas that they want to grow.
And so in some ways there's like this component where like you say, it isn't so much that they're the wrong fit.
29:27
It's just that they don't want what we want.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And we're looking for that magic of let's coach people.
So that if they want what we want, would they can go.
As far as like we're going to help them go.
As far as they possibly can.
Yep.
But if they want something different, I think true coaching means is that we help them get that as well.
29:48
Yep, that's been a part of a lot of the poly relationships that you and I've had and some of them have sailed off into the sunset doing their own thing.
In fact, I can think of a few people went off, started their own business, or still friends.
And yeah, I'm as excited about them, succeeding in there, that new Arena as I was, when they were on our team, I got one that's about ready to a kitchen remodel for me.
30:05
So yeah, there you know, it's right.
And if you're listening, you know who you are.
Yeah, yeah.
No.
I dig it.
I totally agree with where where?
You've gone there.
So let's let's think about this a little bit though.
So there's a couple like from a tactical perspective, I think there's some things for us to consider.
So first off, I think we need to be clear when we're establishing our organizational chart, our roles and responsibilities.
30:27
I think we need to be very clear right out of the gate in terms of setting expectation about what we're anticipating the leadership in our team to be responsible for.
And, you know, again we've talked about this a lot.
We do seminars and training on this, this idea of Like we have somebody that's technically field competent and we just increase their responsibility and oversight tasks, but we've never equip them to be ready for that change.
30:53
Like, they were really good at their trade craft, but now we're asking them to lead people and that's where this coaching component comes in.
So if we're going to create a coaching culture, we have to do a series of things.
One is we need to look at our org chart and we need to break it up in such a way that each key leader has a limited number of personnel, that Your Shear is responsible for speaking in to their professional development, okay?
31:20
And what that means is it's pretty common for someone to be in this like 1 to 10 ratio, okay?
So what that means is, is it possible for a GM or a single business owner to speak into the life of every single one of their employees with a real coaching Intent?
31:37
No way.
You can't do it.
And all of you listening to this, No, because many of you are great, you're all great people and you care about your people.
You just don't have enough time in the day.
So when we think about our org chart and separating our areas of responsibility, we need to understand this ratio element, right?
31:57
Maybe 1 to 10 is not set in stone, but it's pretty decent.
Just think about how much time you have during the week.
How many people can you legitimately understand and speak into their life and so what we encourage people to do for instance, is to establish the either a team lead.
32:13
Again based on competency and natural wiring or a full-on department manager depending on size and scope of your organization.
But what this allows us to do is that an owner now can speak to two or three key people in their organization, teach them how to coach, teach them, how to, by mirroring this relationship of we call the good one, we see it and we also call the bad in a respectful intentional and clear way, I want you to do the same thing with your Oil.
32:43
Now my department head is got six, seven, eight, ten team members and they are coaching into that individual, right?
And then what you see happen as you as this org chart develops, is you even get influencers down the ranks.
And so we might have technician staff that ranges in technical competency and time and grade.
33:03
And if our downline leaders are really adopting and living out this coaching mentality, you're going to see Tech threes and Commercial tax and Senior technicians.
Doing the same thing and then again following our own rulebook when we see it, right?
33:19
If me is a MIT manager, see one of my senior level technicians talking to one of his peers or her peers and talking about, hey man, this kicked butt on the Smith job, you know?
Hey this this other gig, right?
This other component, that was rough.
Here's some thoughts, right?
33:36
Here's what I was your take on that situation.
Yeah.
Yeah, right, exactly.
And if we see that happening, that's the coaching.
Culture that we're talking about because we then divide our responsibility and we limit the number of people that were putting the expectation on us to speak into in a consistent and proactive way.
33:55
And then what we just see, is this very supportive organization that begins to develop over time because we're hitting on a series of responsibilities or behaviors, that really are magical.
We're getting better at identifying when our people are winning because we're intentional about because it's part of this In culture formula, in order for me to provide feedback on your performance, I need to be watching, I need to be paying attention to you right and how you're doing what you're doing.
34:23
So we get that we get this marriage of were complimenting and calling out the kinds of positive behaviors that we want and we're being direct and we're being proactive on challenging the areas where we need some tweaks, and that performance level.
Yeah, it's also just synonymous with high performance culture, right?
34:42
Like, I Think when I think there's a there's a struggle to build a culture when the owner of the GM or even the department leaders are the key source of discipline and accountability.
It's just it's too much.
34:57
It's too difficult.
Especially as you grow when they're the only, when they're the only one.
That's perpetuating that right?
I mean, clearly like that responsibility, for sort of building and maintaining that culture falls to the key leaders.
But man, when you can, when you can push that commitment, Down into your Frontline teams and everybody starts to adopt this way of working with one another, right?
35:20
Yeah, it's incredibly powerful when it doesn't have to be the boss, that's providing that feedback.
But there's this mutual respect, that's developed.
I mean it's just and, you know, to be honest, right?
I don't know the teams ever fully arrived there all the time.
35:36
Right?
We just we had intermittently, we'd recognize Pockets of that growing in our team's, you know.
And so we've always been in the state of nurturing that I don't know.
If we ever fully arrived, you're always gonna have Misfits on the team that just feel threatened by that environment and and ultimately rotate out.
35:55
And so it's hard to get everybody on board all the time with this mentality or perspective.
But boy, is it, does it feel healthy?
Yeah.
When you start to move in that way, you will on when your employees are the ones, referring your next employees and they've Own to love and find success.
36:15
And these coaching environments where we have this clear marriage of accountability and support, then it means the likelihood of your organization.
The percentage of players on the team, you know, growing and growing and growing two are far more of them.
Fall into that category versus not, it's pretty powerful and I like to just kind of recap, this is consistently as possible is we're not asking to build a team where everyone is the same.
36:41
That's exactly.
We're not talking about, we're not looking for sameness, what we're looking for is an equal commitment to wear.
The mission of the company is taking us the vision.
The why, what kind of work environment do we want to create?
And there's all sorts of diversity in backgrounds experience, communication styles, natural wirings, that feed that, that culture.
37:05
So again, we're not we're not trying to be the same.
We're trying to have an equal Focus.
All the team members have an equal focus on the mission at hand and where we're going is an organization, okay?
So this coaching culture, here's some things like some specific strategies.
37:21
I think that we want to consistently think of we're going to start developing this.
And for those of you listening, you're probably a department manager, you could be a business owner, you could be a GM, whatever the case may be, there's a strong chance that you might be the first one to plant this flag in your organization and that's okay.
37:38
And we can always lead up that organizational chart.
And you know, do everything you can to professionally lead-up that, that chain of command is Jocko would say and it's okay for you to just do it well in your own team, right?
Start their create Health in your own space, create Health in your own space, it will get notice and and and that will in turn will have some profound influence.
38:02
Okay so here's some things to consider and these are things ami-chan and thank you so much for the time that you spent with us over the years.
A lot of these things do come from you.
We talked about Briefly, this delegation 101, proactive delegation, that is a tool or a model that you use inside creating a coaching culture.
38:20
And so, what does that look like?
So for instance, from now, on making a commitment that if I'm going to create a coaching culture within my organization, I am going to delegate in a very specific way when I assign tasking and here's what that looks like.
We start by clearly defining why this individual is great for this role, okay?
38:42
Ask project, title, whatever the case, maybe you're saying to this individual.
Hey, I see these skill sets strengths natural gifting in you.
And that's why I'm coming to you with this task, with this responsibility.
Here's the mission.
38:58
Okay.
Lay it out.
Here's what success in that mission will look like for us, you know, so many new leads generated by XYZ time frame.
So much revenue dollars, created timelines and our job life, so whatever the Is be very clear when we're delegating that this is what success looks like.
39:17
And then that two-part conversation of.
What do you see right now that we've kind of talked about this Mission?
I've laid out some of the Winds.
What do you see in?
Can we add something to that?
Some tweaks and modification great.
We're all on the same page.
Here's when these deliverables are do.
Here's the role.
39:33
I will have in supporting you in this project.
Yeah.
Okay.
We could do a whole.
Again, this is a podcast.
We you know, these are hours and hours of content.
ENT training potentially, but but just, that is a tool.
Guys learning how to delegate in a really effective and proactive way is part of creating this coaching culture, okay?
39:52
We're telling people what we need, we're inviting them in because of the skill set that we see in them.
And then we're helping them create a very clear picture of winning, major important tool.
Okay.
Another important tool is being very utilitarian.
For some of us this is Natural Instinct for many of us.
40:08
It's not.
And so we have to be fairly In the way that we're going to create a system to help us succeed in this, that means use your calendar.
Okay?
So if that means that you need to up your game on, on employee recognition, put something on your calendar, 15 minute, block Monday, Wednesday and Friday and it is.
40:29
Okay, if it's robotic is heck, when it first starts that Monday morning, I've got a 15-minute marker.
I'm going to go to the shop for 15 minutes and try to find something I can point out awesome for you, that's great.
It is an awesome first start.
So what that piece is do what is necessary to give you the opportunity to follow through on this.
40:51
If it's a natural gifting for you.
Great.
This is going to be easy.
If it is not, that's okay.
It's still valuable.
It's still mission-critical schedule it and use your calendar.
Okay.
Schedule it in another tool or resource that I think creates a really healthy coaching culture contributes to it is what we talk to our folks about is two things after action review, rhythms.
41:12
And a coaching summary.
Okay, and the reason we really promote coaching summaries is that it allows us to create time date-stamped records of these coaching opportunities that we have with our Personnel without it being.
So disciplinary in perspective, because like we've said to create a coaching environment, we need to be calling out the good and the challenges.
41:34
And so these these summary opportunity, a just gives us the ability to do that in a formal way.
That's trackable and there's a record of it and it doesn't feel like disciplinary action whatsoever.
So example, is that is in, again, we just trying to burn through some of these tools, is what the conversation was about, what you committed to doing, what I committed to doing, right?
41:59
So that's one where we need to move the needle somewhere.
Okay, it's coaching summary time date-stamped.
It's positive.
It's mutually beneficial.
We may just see a Kudos go out.
Same thing.
Hey, I saw you doing XYZ today.
Pans down, right?
That's money.
42:14
It's right in line with what we're shooting for.
Thanks again, same thing, tight time-date stamp because what we see in a lot of cases and why this culture is coaching culture.
So important is that so much of our staff feels unappreciated for what they're doing but man if they can go back to their email inbox and see that multiple times throughout the quarter, there'll direct line leader is calling out in them.
42:36
The things that they do well and then they took 30 seconds to type it up and send it to them.
A powerful.
Now we call it a summary for a reason.
This coaching relationship is happening live, right?
Could be the cab of the truck on the way to a job could be at the job site.
42:53
Could be in the training room when we're with our admin team, whatever the case may be, take advantage of it in the moment be aware, but then we just follow it up.
That's, that's where that, that kind of more intentional element comes from.
And then, I think, kind of, the last tool resource that we talk a lot about is the After action review, do you want to kind of just unpack the brief version of that?
43:15
Yeah so the after-action review I mean it's taken from the military concept.
You get back from a mission and the whole team reports back kind of from their vantage point in a very non-emotional factual sort of way.
Here are the factual events that unfolded from my point of view and everybody shares that and then the group looks at the actions of the whole team and says, okay, what was great?
43:42
Great.
What was not.
So great.
What would we change next time?
What would we write?
So, it's very wordy.
Personalizing were objectifying, the experience?
The interaction, the project that were doing an after action review on, we're making it this little object in the center of the circle there and everybody's looking at it from their angle and saying, okay, this was my take, this is, you know my my job was this.
44:06
Here's how I think I executed on that, but in a factual way and it takes a while to set It up to where everybody is sort of coming to it from that angle because all of us have this self protective thing we do, right?
So takes practice, but it's not emotional fact-based.
44:23
It's we language.
Yep, rather than you I did my part but you screwed up, right?
That has no place in the AAR.
That's right.
Yeah, that's spot-on.
It's a team sport.
And this is just a continuation of that accountability in a team Collective environment like that.
44:40
So there's another, there's a There's a book called crucial conversations or critical conversations previous coach.
I hired cash like 10 years ago, Terror Robinson.
It was she was, she was great.
She talked about this concept from that book, called three points of conversation and it's particularly good when the stakes are high or when there's difficult things to communicate and the basic concept of it is similar, like, there's there's a lot of crossover PA are, but it's when your one-on-one with somebody, that can be a very intimidating thing especially if there's a power differential, right?
45:10
You're the owner of the business and there.
Somebody on payroll.
Yep, there is a power differential there.
Yeah.
You may not feel it as an owner because it's all, you know, it and we thought even GM's, they don't realize they don't realize the power.
They carry walking into the room, right?
Right?
Yeah.
45:25
Okay.
So when we have a one-on-one coaching conversation, this three points of contact thing is the idea of right the bullet points out of the thing that needs to be discussed.
Put it on a piece of paper, sit down on the same side of the table.
45:42
With your colleague, downline person, whatever.
And then, as you start talking through the issues that are on the paper, look at the paper.
And then, of course, we're not saying this has to be some sterile thing.
I'm not suggesting like you don't ever make eye contact.
You know, it's not it's not like that but what you're doing is you're putting the problem or the challenge or the difficult conversation on this other piece of paper that both of you are looking at.
46:06
Yes, rather than you looking at the other person and describing the problem that they are or they're creating Instead we just we we objective fire, we depersonalize the issue at hand, so that both of us can kind of come into that conversation neutral.
46:22
One person doesn't feel threatened.
So, it's a mechanical thing that we can do, but man, I've every time I've tried it.
It's gone.
Well, it's gone better!
I should say those difficult conversations.
Are often still difficult.
That's right.
We still have to ask those tough questions.
That's right.
But it's not a personal attack and it doesn't feel like it.
46:40
Yeah, totally agree with that.
I think that's an Excellent point.
So okay, so I think some folks listening to this or like, oh, that sounds pretty easy.
Most of us would be intimidated by this.
So here's here's something that I think that we need to start with.
This is foundational.
In order for us to begin, adding these tools, these resources these layers to ultimately create this coaching culture.
47:01
And that is, we need to have measurables there needs to be data points in every single role that we are monitoring and measuring from a non, Ocean all perspective.
Now, you know for that are analysts out there that are listening is like damn, right, right?
47:18
And for the rest of us, that lead more from a gut perspective or like, oh, great more crap, I got to pay attention to apis work.
Apis.
Yeah.
So but it is Mission critical and and I can tell you, I, you know, I would never use names, but I've been in very uncomfortable situations with people, I really liked and I really respected, but professionally their performance did not meet the standard by a long shot.
47:42
Rashad.
And I was always, always Blown Away by the gap between my perception of their performance and the perception of their own performance.
And the only way that I've found over the years to get to close that Gap, you'll never remove it because we're humans, and we see the world through very distinct eyes, but you can get really damn close to getting on the same page, the more No, you are with.
48:13
What is it that we monitor?
What is it that we measure?
And how does that affect a win or a lose for that particular individuals, performance?
Let's just grab a category.
You know, I'm a Recon manager, I have for project managers, there's a couple things that I'm going to do tactically to ensure that we get this Mutual language, that we can all speak from.
48:34
And so I might put out a monthly recap of my project managers performance and it's going to have a series of things on there and we're Are also very public, okay.
That's the thing about team sports.
Right?
When you, when you talk to a professional ball Club, their stats or public, not only does the team know the stats, but the world knows stats.
48:54
And so if we're going to create this coaching environment, this coaching culture, we have to be transparent with measuring of our performance, okay?
And so that Benchmark, that monthly report that all my PMC is going to hammer on or really be focused on those key kpis that put us on the same side.
49:12
Table total revenue that individual is able to produce right gross profit margin that they create on their projects things like average job life cycle times, right?
Or maybe something about Collections and job, closing activity, right examples.
You guys have battle rhythms.
49:28
You have kpis in your organization, but here's my point.
If in a very public fashion, its standard operating procedure, we all see what we're producing.
What kind of margins were producing at how long it's taking us to do it and how consistently we attack our enemies.
AR aging, it's closer right to a black-and-white conversation.
49:46
So if I'm going to have a coaching conversation with you, in terms of performance, if there's a wave for me to spend most of it around the things that affect those specific KP is my version of the story shouldn't be too much farther off from your version of the story in terms of how am I doing.
50:03
Yeah, right.
And then I think there's a myriad of other things that are critical there in terms of it helps us triangulate where the problems are so that we can support our staffs.
Growth and development.
So again, I think if we're going to create this environment, we have to start by creating some kind of measurable.
50:20
Competencies within our organization where for each key, role were defining what wins look like and what are the data points that were paying attention to and measuring?
And then if that's done in a professionally transparent way, that's kind of the foundation.
50:37
And now we can start adding these other tools and resources to develop The professional relationship that we have with the employee but we got to start by trying to close that gap of your view of it versus my view.
Yeah.
What is, what does a winner look like and behave like, you know, our organization and that's going to shift over time, but having a clear message at all times what that is and allowing that to grow and adapt over time.
51:02
It's really, really important.
Okay.
So I have another angle on this that, I think, maybe we could even wrap up with, because you and I got to get into another meeting.
I think one aspect of coaching I experienced this with Go find another great coaches that you and I both had the pleasure to work with is finding out what they want.
51:18
And they mean really diligent to coach toward that.
Because once we can find out, what do you want, where you trying to go?
What role do you ultimately want in this company?
What aspects of the work?
Do you love the most about your current job?
What would it look like to grow?
51:33
And have more time for those aspects?
Where do you see yourself like, ideally asking those kind of dream and destination questions?
I'm trying to get.
Yeah.
And and really listening and being curious Beyond money being part of it.
Sometimes, we're afraid to ask how much money they want to make what the goals are, but just get it all out on the table and then helping them chart a path.
51:56
Yes.
Trading division of well in order for you to achieve that and it maybe it's a multi-pronged conversation, right?
Because sometimes we don't even know how to get them there right away.
Yeah.
But it's like well I can tell you this like one of the things that would require is X.
Does that seem like something you'd be willing to Michael.
52:12
Yeah, learning that figuring that out.
Becoming better at that, you know, that kind of thing.
Yeah.
But then I think once we get clear on what they want and we can ask them, do you want me to help you get there are you willing fights?
See something, and I have a suggestion for you.
Do you want me to say it?
52:29
Do you want me to give you feedback on these different elements?
You if you want this you're going to need this.
Do I have your permission to follow up on this stuff and really getting their buy-in?
And then I It reminds me of that quote by somebody.
52:45
Now I think it was, I think it was Henry Cloud.
He said leaders will always get, oh, yeah, it with the create and what they allow.
Yeah.
And so I think within that coaching conversation, right?
If we can get clarity from our people, we can be that external how for lack of a better word, like conscience.
53:02
Yeah, we can remind them of what they want.
Yes, rather than making it, a punitive managerial conversations, more of a mentor conversation or Coach position of Hey, hey John, come on in here, man.
Yeah, this.
That hallway conversation, come on in the office, man.
I want to want to check in and we can, we can bring up a situation.
53:19
We said, Hey, listen, I saw this.
I want to check in with you.
Yeah.
Because when we talked last month, when we talk two weeks ago in your one-on-one, you, you know, we revisit this.
You're trying to get here.
Yep.
And we talked about what goes into that.
Is that still important to you?
53:37
And if it is, I have a little bit of feedback.
Can we talk about?
Here's what I observed.
What was that like for you in this situation?
You know, how would you potentially change that?
If you could go back, right?
And we're reefs entering them on the key behaviors.
Absolutely.
To get where they want to go.
It's less about us, changing them or manage them, but it's that check-in of?
53:56
Hey do you still want this?
Yeah, okay well let's, let's double down.
Let's let's get Back to Basics here.
Right, let's get the Reps in because you're gonna have to figure that out before you can get to that next thing.
Yeah.
And then all of a sudden we're not punishing them.
54:12
They don't feel threatened.
They don't feel like, oh man, is it?
They have a clear path of if I want to get back on track, I just need to go back to these things.
We've already agreed upon in disgust.
It's less us putting words in people's mouths and just checking in and saying, hey, is this still what you want?
It's the signpost and being okay with them saying, you know, gosh, I just don't think this is for me.
54:30
Like, that may sometimes be the outcome of.
I don't think I have it in me right now.
Yeah.
Or I don't know if I'm ready for this.
Yeah, which is totally appropriate and puts you on the same page and that's actually a benefit to everyone.
Yeah, engage.
So that is the hardest part, right?
Is when we do engage, we have to be ready to follow through.
54:48
Because if we have these Visionary conversations with people and we get commitment from them.
We get permission, which is a funny way to say it when you're like the boss.
Yeah, you're getting permission from your employee but the reality is this, there we're all individuals.
That's the only Really work for people to get their permission.
55:04
Certainly to get movement on their part.
Yeah.
Right right.
Otherwise we just have objects.
Yeah.
And if there is no permission, then there's a strong chance.
They're not going to fit on the team, very long.
Yeah.
Right.
Because they won't be making the modifications to increase their performance, so it shakes out in the end, okay.
Hey, thanks for joining us for that show.
55:20
Guys, if there's value here, please again, share it with a friend.
Bring somebody else in to the community.
And let's do some life together with them, please like, subscribe.
And if you have an opportunity, Leave us a review you guys we love that stuff.
It's really important to us and we appreciate your feedback and input.
55:37
Yeah, the only other thing I'd say to is I mean, we have no shortage of ideas and topics and fun stuff we want to talk about.
But if you've got a topic for the show or a guest, we see ya.
All of you know how to punch Chris nordyke or Brandon Reese into your LinkedIn.
Search bar.
Yeah, find us shoot us a DM there.
55:52
That's easiest or Chris at floodlight grp Brandon at flow, like, gr p.com but send us stuff.
Chances, very good, we'll talk about it.
We'll bring it up on a future show, right?
We might even Even poke you.
So, you know, they be little shout out, bring it up.
Yeah, you'll be podcast famous.
That's right.
All right, guys, thanks a lot.
Bye.
56:10
All right, everybody.
Hey, thanks for joining us.
For another episode of head, heart and boots.
And if you're joining the show, if you loved this episode, please hit follow only known as subscribe.
Write us a review or share this episode with a friend, share it on LinkedIn.
Share it, via text, whatever.
56:26
It all helps.
Thanks for listening.