0:00
Friends, clients listeners.
Everybody in between, we've got a really cool special episode for you.
This was originally recorded on the blue collar Nation Podcast with Eric and Larry.
Eric and Larry if you don't already know, are the creators of Super Tech University, which is a training and development platform, specifically made for your technicians.
0:21
You may have heard it, its previous name the morning tech meeting, they've been making all kinds of moves and upgrading their platform and Continuing to make really awesome content to grow your technicians.
If you haven't looked into it, you have to, I mean, the cost of this is ridiculously low.
0:39
Every single restoration owner should be providing this to their technicians brand and I really enamored with their work.
But I think most of all and you'll hear it in this show.
I just love how open and transparent and candid and genuine these guys are it's really fun to watch the dynamic between them.
0:59
Brandon Relate to it a lot, Brandon and I are very different in some of the same ways that Eric and Larry are different.
They complement each other in many ways and it's just really fun to listen to and Brandon, I had an awesome time recording the show, it's long but just like those of you who have listened to Joe Rogan and some of his shows, sometimes you need time to really develop a conversation and so I'd encourage you to hang in there, you know, listen to it on your road time.
1:24
You're in between stuff when you're working out because the whole show man we take a ton of fun twists and turns And particular, if you're a business owner I think is a lot.
You're going to relate to.
So anyway, I hope you enjoy as much as Brandon I did.
And do check out Blue Collar nation and Super Tech University, you'll be glad you did.
1:48
Welcome Back To The Head heart and Boots podcast.
I'm Chris and I'm Brandon.
Join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses we leave which I think was kind of serious shall we laughs?
Welcome to the blue collar Nation, Podcast, the podcast dedicated.
2:12
To making the lives of blue-collar business owners better before we start the show, may we ask you for a quick favor.
Eric and Larry work, very hard at delivering the best free content possible.
Please help them out by going to iTunes and subscribing and please leave them a five star review.
2:30
Also, feel free to share the podcast with your friends and peers.
Now on to the show, Well hello everybody.
This is Larry from the blue-collar Nation Podcast.
I'm here with my Discerning business partner.
2:45
The tech was premised, Eric, Sprague I might use that word before.
How are you?
Eric, you're right.
I am Discerning.
Yes, gorgeous earning it says not about.
Not about business partners but was in sight challenging personality.
3:02
If you are Miss I just told on you and you completely missed it, I blew it.
If I just let him run, I totally let him gasps out.
Yeah, that was about it.
So, you know, how are you today?
Eric.
Well, I was good until you didn't respond to that.
3:22
Try it again.
Okay.
No, no, no move on.
We got better guests and you and I, this podcast is sponsored by Super Tech University.
I am.
You need a university for your technicians so that they conduct themselves better.
On-site, your problems don't come from their technical abilities because you train them real good and Technical abilities.
3:42
Do you train him and soft skills?
I don't think so.
Generally speaking, I'm going to go out on an edge and say you don't and you need to and that's what we do.
And the tech whisper himself, trains them in people skills, human skills, soft skills.
So go to super tech you.com and check us out and you will be highly impressed that a technician for your a coach for technicians will long way.
4:07
And back to the podcast.
So we have an amazing group of gentlemen here today, including us but two guys that are Discerning in their own, right?
We have Chris nordyke of the floodlight Consulting Group and his business partner, Brandon.
4:23
Reefs of the floodlight Consulting Group and they're also host of head heart and Boots podcast which is really cool podcast.
You check that out, too.
So, hello gentlemen.
How are you today, boys?
We're excited to be here.
We're excited to be here.
4:39
Yes, there are always fun.
I was looking at my calendar for the week and I was like, yes, Thursday, afternoons gonna be fun.
That's what I was thinking.
Exactly, although we did get some pretty sweet cannon fodder before we even hit the record button so hopefully we can hopefully we didn't blow our scream.
4:56
Yeah.
We I don't think there's going to be any shortage of cannon fodder.
Hopefully it'll be a little unsolicited like it was already so.
Okay I like it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We're talking about me.
Yeah, absolutely.
5:13
So you got the for mr.
Sprague will make it happen, right?
Well, we got Chris and Brandon here.
They are friends.
We've been on your podcast which we appreciated that.
I had a great conversation.
It's been too long coming.
We're so busy.
You guys are so busy.
I'm glad that you guys are here today.
5:29
Thank you for coming on.
Yeah man, we were looking forward to this, for sure.
Yeah.
And we've had several conversations on some Zoom call.
Should I think the four of us in many ways you're kind of Kindred Spirits.
So I wanted to talk about some things that entrepreneurs just struggle with, you know, and I know that's kind of what you guys talked about a lot.
5:51
I want to give you some Kudos that you guys did a podcast recently about kind of your own health and fitness Transformations.
And I wanted to kind of drag some of that into our conversation because I can only speak for me.
I can't speak for Larry.
6:07
He but that really resonated with me because I've been through that whole process and look I've like gotten it right?
And then screwed it up and then I got to do it again and I multiple times and we'll talk probably a little bit about that but yeah, just really appreciate the content.
6:26
So I thought what we talked about is is managing the self, right?
Like when you go start a business it's all about the self.
Yeah, you're not.
King, when you're dreaming it up like, you know, HR and your employees.
6:43
And like that's not generally what most people do.
At the beginning phase, they're saying, like, I don't want to work for somebody else.
I want to chart my own course.
I think I can do this better and it's like a lot of i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i and then that's great in the startup phase.
7:02
But then, as you start to scale that business that I starts to rear its ugly, Head.
And, you know, it's like we had a coach that used to say, say, I know it's the saying, it's like, the skills that gets you out of Egypt, won't get you to the promised land some version of that, right?
7:20
So I wanted to talk about, you know, what is your, what is your thoughts on that concept?
If the entrepreneur being very self identifying and self-driven?
Wow, man.
You'd like opened up with a A deep.
7:38
I'm going to clear running.
Yeah, right out of the gate.
Well I mean there's there's there's a few different directions with that, right?
Because I think when we're self-identified where their business that's potentially a really dangerous.
It's a dangerous place to be, right?
Because every set, every setback feels like a a statement about us or a judgment about our value and so forth.
8:05
But then, but then there's also this element Moment of I think self-discipline to so there's like there's the bean to identify with our business so that every single setback, every single criticism and so forth is a criticism of bust personally but then there's also that self-management component to of discipline and self awareness is our team grows which is kind of two different conversations.
8:33
What?
I'm made.
A great Point.
Let's Go.
Through those like kind of one by one and in the order that they kind of happen.
So the first thing is self-motivated self-disciplined, right?
Those are the things that we have to do to get a company off the ground so what's the good and bad and ugly with that?
8:54
Well you know what's funny is that we were just kind of talking about it before the show lit up.
We were just talking about how much Road time you guys are putting in and and to be totally transparent with you, like I'm watching your guys's work ethic and I'm Gomen, these two guys are no joke, like they are grinding right now to get that brand exposure and give people an opportunity to see what's available right for the toolkit.
9:17
And I think that that's a major component right there.
I think I think a lot of us make the mistake to underestimate the work that it's going to require to do the initial lift of our business and I like Chris and I talked about this quite a bit.
I have felt pretty much just exhausted since we started.
9:37
It's not, it's in a good way.
Like, I'd rather be exhausted in this, you know, position than any other.
But but you do you you just have to come to terms with the fact that at the beginning, especially you're going to be exhausted.
And you better find a way to be motivated through that.
9:52
That doesn't look like he's simple, taking a break or all the other things, right?
Right.
It's different than in the beginning when it was starting the restoration business or bodies were beat up their bodies.
Now it's just a mental energy and the mental push this just Around the clock that we're willing to put effort in to make it happen and it's just exhausting.
10:12
Yeah, totally.
Yeah, you know, go ahead Kris back.
Well, I was just going to say, I think another experience I've had that this makes me think of is, like, you say, when you start to scale like, just that hustle, and Charisma can get you a long way in this business, right?
10:29
And the service business, it's like doing the right thing, you know, haven't having sort of a heart for the customer Karen about your Tation like that stuff.
Can get you pretty far but then, as you start to scale, you start to have a bigger head counts at your company.
They're one of the one of the areas of self-management that I noticed is how easy it is to slip into a place where our expectations of others remain very high in terms of the standards and performance were expecting from our team.
11:00
But behind the scenes, our own self-discipline and the standards were holding ourselves to is is just completely Fallen apart two to one degree or another.
And I ordered his students like we hold him to a standard that we can't keep ourselves.
11:17
Yeah.
And then we rationalized away like why we can't get things done?
Yes, that's human nature.
Yeah.
It's human nature but what it is it to me?
It's a it's a slip and integrity.
Right?
It's and and I'm embarrassed like there's a part of me that's a little bit embarrassed to bring this up because I just see it as a big failure on.
11:37
My part is when there's that in congruence right between what I'm asking them and how I'm really functioning as a leader behind the scenes, it's not a direct comparison.
Like I'm asking them to do X number of sales calls and I'm not doing that, but it's just it's little things.
11:53
Like I'm holding them to a very high standard of performance and I show I roll into our sales meeting team sales meeting five minutes late.
Or I didn't, I didn't set an agenda for that meeting.
I'm just kind of winging it, you know, when I show up and I have all kinds of excuses in my, in my head, why my hair's on fire and why it's okay for me to show up that meeting without a set agenda and just kind of winging it, but what am I really communicating to my team?
12:22
Like it's a, it's a really big, it's a really big problem.
It's a huge disconnect, and professionalism, you're asking them to be so professional.
And yet, what you just described is lacking Professionalism.
Yeah and I'm teaching them that there are some excuses that it's okay to make like, well I was just running from this to this and I'm really busy and I've got all these important things I'm doing but it, it sends the wrong message.
12:47
Obviously to our people because they see through it.
They're like, we'll wait, I'm busy too.
And you've charged me with a lot of responsibilities and expectations and I'm not allowed to show up to the meeting late without my reports, right?
Larry.
Would you like to weigh in on this?
Oh yeah.
This was This was me in many ways and the, I'd self-identity with the business.
13:09
I mean, everything in the business was me, you go ahead.
We're gonna get to that but, you know, this will give you an example.
So I was putting systems in place guys, right?
And because we had grown, to the point where, you know, it can't be Word of Mouth.
We need systems for everything, we have, you know, 25 30 guys, there has to be systems.
13:29
So I'm working my ass off right getting these systems in place and look Even when we were that size Larry and I was still would take on call nights, just to give our guy's a break.
So Larry would take it on, call go cut some drywall and then drop the wet bags of drywall right in front of a truck at the back door, the warehouse.
13:50
Well, guess who's, that was exactly something similar.
But I don't know if we do know you're full of shit.
So so what would happen is my guys would come in and be like Eric this is you know, horseshit because Larry's doing if we did that, we'd be getting killed you know?
14:08
The system States right in the rulebook that we this is what we do and then Larry Christie.
The reason I said brought it up is Larry would then rationalize like give it to you realize how many, how many sales calls I have to make tomorrow but you realize that I never really stopped working.
14:24
You know, it's the it's that owner privilege that we enact yes that can really hurt culture, go man, you know what the reality of it is is I So guilty of that, like even not as an owner, just as a GM, like there is this constant battle with leadership role, especially as you keep continuing to move up the chain of just really struggling with that consistent self-accountability of?
14:50
Am I really doing the same level of, you know, discipline commitment, whatever is I'm asking my people and man, it's like when you say it, that way, it made me immediately go back to those GM oriented roles and I'm going.
Yeah man, I struggled I had lots of excuses.
15:07
Why it was okay for me to not?
Hit the mark and I certainly was others critical to the point where I didn't give them the room necessarily to make that same failure in hindsight, it's all ego, right?
It's a.
Like when I think about that, example, I gave with the sales meetings, it is 100% ego and that my role is more important.
15:28
More sophisticated.
I'm seeing things at a higher level, bullshit, bullshit bullshit, right.
Like II have no shortage of bullshit to justify my behavior, right?
It's all ego.
My position entitles me to make these judgment calls on the fly as to what's important and what's not, you know, for me?
15:47
Yeah.
You're you're using executive privilege.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And look, Larry.
And I used to do that all the time, right?
We, you know, because when guys would do stuff, we'd be like, guys, look, we never stopped working.
You get to go home, we're still Thinking about it meeting about it all that and they didn't give a crap.
16:08
Yeah.
Like that's your business.
That's the role you picked.
Yeah.
Yeah.
For some reason when they understand that there's pod could potentially profit that you're creating in your business they don't feel terribly.
Sorry for you you because you worked your ass off for, you know it's like so what you know, it kind of reminds me though, it's like remembering context, right?
16:27
And I think that we kind of all Wrestle with this to a certain extent.
It's and it really is kind of mirroring what you're Press is, it's this idea of, are we doing a good job of leaders?
Remembering the context of the position that our employees are inverses us.
16:43
And here's what I mean by that.
So, like, my wife has kind of an interesting story at some point.
She had some pretty heavy tragic tragedy in it and she tells the story about how she was at high school.
And she saw this young girl crying kind of uncontrolled little locker.
16:59
And, anyway, she went up and checked up on her and found out that this girl was crying because she had just lost her.
Her dog.
And the thought that my wife had, which she had a very serious tragedy event, where a father, and a sister were killed in a car accident.
She remembers In This Moment being really empathetic for this individual and remembering the context of, I can't compare my pain or the thing that I went through compared to this person like right now in the moment and this girl's context, that is the saddest thing that she's dealing with, and she wanted to provide empathy for her.
17:33
And I think That is leaders that we need to remember like the thing that I'm giving myself excuses.
For maybe they on paper look as if they carry more weight.
But that's because the context of my life and the role that I play in, my business means I should be able to handle that level of responsibility.
17:51
And so, when I look at my technicians or my downline team members, and I try to make a judgment about the position that they're in, in the weight of the things, they're carrying, we got to remember, but in their context, it feels It's just as waiting and just as intense as the things that were shouldering is business owners or key leaders.
18:10
You know what I mean?
Yeah, now that's, that's a great Point.
Yeah.
Well, that leads us then.
To the next self self awareness that we have to gain self-awareness to overcome our shortcomings.
Right?
You know, I mean, if we're doing all these bullshit moves at some point, you know Chris, you said like your hard work and gutting it out.
18:33
Just being motivated, can get you to a certain place that place for most service companies I think is right around a million dollars like I think most of them can get to a million just on the owner sheer will.
Yeah and then all of a sudden the wheel start falling off the wagon because no amount of motivation.
18:54
No amount of self-discipline will get you past that because usually were lacking humility, or Allah or lacking, you know?
No, we're, you know, accountability to others and all these things.
And then what happens is the guys that go to 3 million 5 million, 10 million, they somewhere along the line had to become self-aware.
19:15
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
For I there's been several moments in my career those moments of awareness, moments of truth.
Right?
And you know, one of those was for me was, was a Brandon actually.
19:30
I told the story on the podcast but it's probably buried so far.
Other people don't remember it.
But one of those moments of Truth for me, was when we were in the height of our growth at this company we were working at together.
I mean, it was we were busting at the seams I think it was right before we opened up a second location.
19:49
I mean, we were on this hockey stick kind of growth and I had done a presentation at one of our all company meetings and I came out of the meeting and I like I typically do, I'm always asking for feedback but Brandon had some Really good feedback.
I said hey how is my, how is my talk?
20:07
How is my portion of the agenda?
He said well, you know, as usual he's like dude you're good in front of people.
That's your thing, he said, but I'll boy.
What is this?
Where is this going?
He said, but I just, I just have the feeling.
Watching you and listening to you and he's like, I don't know if anybody else in the room picked up on his hip, but it just feels like you have a lot of confidence.
20:31
But you don't have a lot of self-esteem, like it just feels like there's this pull that you need people to kind of a firm, how good your talk was validating.
And, and he's like, I'm just, I wonder about that.
And I thought about that and we subsequently had a number of conversations that was a real turning point for me.
20:51
I hadn't nobody had ever quite put it in those terms.
And and so I really kind of ruminated on that.
What does that mean?
That I am confident but I don't have the Self-esteem.
And he was a real turning point for me, just recognizing how others were experiencing me that pole.
21:12
And and what to do about it, and really kind of set off, kind of a five-year period of.
I mean, really, it's still something.
I'm aware of, I'm conscious of is when when am I slipping into that mode?
It's usually.
When I start to feel imposter syndrome by all of us, get that right?
It's when I can get into that mode that kind of turns on that switch in me you know where I just affirmation seeking and stuff like that.
21:34
But yeah, I think I think if we don't intentionally submit ourselves to other people in and allow people to speak that honestly, into our, into our lives, it's easy to go on your whole career, never never becoming self-aware and never really understanding how others are experiencing you every single Moment of Truth.
21:57
I've had, it's been from a friend, I think back to another example, this early on, when I was The Farm agent, I was taught me with one of my best friends and we had dinner, and at the end of the dinner, the wives got up to go, do whatever.
And we were there alone at the table and he said, Chris, I I just have to tell you, I feel like you've been really sarcastic with me lately.
22:21
Like you've said some things that have really hurt my feelings, like, just these snarky sarcastic remarks and he's like in, but the real reason I'm talking to you, is because I've also observed you being sarcastic with A wife too.
And I just wanted to let you know, I've noticed that and it's hurt my feelings and I feel like I've observed, it hurting your wife's feelings and I just wanted you to know, I was like, oh wow, I mean, I was really taken by it, you know, because he doesn't normally this isn't a friend that's like always criticizing me or no, no, not not at all.
22:53
And he was very genuine and very serious.
And that was a really transformational moment for me.
I'm so grateful.
You That was born out of well, you know you know what it was, is it was I was, I was starting my State Farm Agency.
23:09
I was in that hustle mode.
Those early days, I think I was just a couple years in.
And so really student struggling to like build an income and a business that was stable and all that stuff.
And, you know, those early days you don't have a lot of points of affirmation, you know, it's like wow, the bank account slow again and running up my credit lie and I just had this employee quit and just have all those things into your.
23:30
So Here, you're just kind of constantly running on empty and I think my idea of self care and stuff, just I just wasn't very present to that.
I just wasn't very aware of that.
I didn't know what I needed at that stage.
23:46
Don't go further because we're going to get into that deeply.
Yeah, you know, Chris want to comment on that real quick being not present when we've all been in those points.
You know, when things aren't going well, the bank can is going well, you got a payroll coming, you know, I always present and how you act Isn't always who you are.
24:04
Cause you're not really self reflecting, but if you have people around you to give you feedback, it's always helpful.
Yeah.
Erik's, always keeping me in check and we keep each other in check.
And when I could joke about, but that's valuable, that's the thing.
Larry yo, very few business Partnerships are long-term.
24:22
So if we didn't have each other, there's nobody in our company that was going to keep us in check, because our names on the check right there.
Okay, say anything.
And that's the thing you see is that almost compounds it gets worse, right?
As you the longer you're in business, it's and you don't have a peer Circle.
24:40
That's doing some kind of level of accountability.
You're constantly surrounded by somebody that either you, at least feel right is dependent on you or serves a purpose, right?
And that's probably a whole nother podcast, but you get stuck in that set Circle too long and manse like who, you know, for us geske.
25:01
Personality profiling.
Yeah, that was a game changer for us.
I can't speak for.
I mean, we know a lot of companies that use it but for Larry and I especially since we've been friends so long now.
We're business partners.
As you guys know we're Polar Opposites of each other.
25:20
You couldn't pick two people or more different and like good and evil and you're the good guy.
Clearly, the only really Larry always gets to be the good guy.
It's bullshit.
25:36
So anyway, you know, disk helped us manage our own self-awareness because we weren't self-aware.
All we are front door of our shop was like a turnstile.
They come in.
They go out like we couldn't keep people because we were being idiots.
25:54
Like we were, you know, just like you said, not aware not present in the moment, not worrying about anything.
Buddy's needs, but our own fighting sarcastic easier.
Yeah, we were very sarcastic and, and then not only that.
26:10
But then Larry and I had her own issues, we're fighting because we're not seeing our company, or the world throughout the same eyes.
So, to have a tool and I'm only talking about disc is a tool.
Yeah.
Having some tool, whatever it is to start gaining self-awareness, can then fix a lot of those problems.
26:31
Yeah.
And I, Do what's comfortable?
No, it's not.
But you know what's interesting about that and maybe this is worth a kind of ping pong, a little bit.
Is its there's a little bit of the chicken or the egg scenario when it comes to this kind of stuff.
Because part of me feels like you have lots of experiences with people.
26:49
And, and for whatever reason, upbringing environments, whatever.
They they don't seem like there's any awareness of the fact that maybe they have something to learn, right?
Like, there's just no.
Like why would they seek doing the disk?
27:05
Why would they connect with someone and say, hey I really need to have someone in my life.
That's a voice that I can respect.
That helps me see my my blind spots.
There is this interesting thing where you run into people that just naturally are willing to consider that, that might be a healthy thing.
27:22
And so then they go out and pursue those tools or those resources of those relationships, like what, what what do we do when there's no realize Ization.
So what you're saying, Brandon is that the people who need it, the most are the least app to go seek it.
27:40
It does feel that way.
Yeah, it does, right?
That way, I can always.
I mean I don't know about you guys, but I can speak for myself in that I grew up an athlete.
So I always wanted to have a coach, like, it was just so automatic for me like, whatever I'm doing.
27:55
I need a coach because I can't see what I can't see, and I brought that.
I mean, I think that's one of the Things that I brought to our Restoration company in Larry really early on was like no man we need a coach like we need somebody telling us you being an idiot you're not working hard enough, you're not working the right way and the problem is Brandon the people who need the most coaching or the often the least coachable.
28:23
Yeah it's very true, very true.
I think that underscores another thing too which is just in our culture we have a pretty superficial Culture here in the west, right?
Like it's a Facebook Instagram culture and we don't like to like those examples that I gave Brandon and Maya, my friend that is really rare for people to offer that kind of personal.
28:48
Well, you should be showing vulnerability, it's incredibly.
Yeah, it's incredibly rare for anybody to proactively offer that kind of input or feedback.
And so, I'm just incredibly grateful in fact, I'm not kidding like this.
Still a good friend of mine and you have to hang on a second runner-up.
29:04
You gotta give yourself credit to be able to receive it as well.
No, you're right.
Won't receive it.
You know, you're and I think that's part of the problem, right?
Is that many of us have had an experience where we offered feedback to somebody.
It was not received well and we're like Gobo.
I probably should be careful doing that again, Larry does that daily.
29:22
I totally saw Eric being the one that would do that, but that's okay.
Yeah.
But I think what I've learned Learned over the years.
In Brandon, I both is that you really have to go out of your way, to cultivate the kind of relationships.
29:40
Same like, like and it sounds kind of woo, some of these words.
But you really have to go out of your way, to create a safe container with the people around you to where they know, they can say those sorts of things to you.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Like you really have to cultivate this environment around you?
29:57
I mean there's a gym.
Death murder is one of the guys who really love listening to you.
He's Conscious Leadership Institute, and he talks about creating a feedback Rich environment.
And one of the funny things he says, is when in a company, is your starting to try to build this feedback, Rich environment is, sometimes you even have to fake it.
30:15
He said, because when you first introduced this concept to your team, everybody's afraid.
They are.
So afraid to give real feedback like Brandon game, you're like my friend Bryson, give me and he said, honestly, it's sometimes even helpful to make shit up literally Hill coach people.
30:31
They don't know what to say.
Yeah, it's just listen.
I want you to make up some feedback for me right now.
Sure.
I don't care how funny or weird it is right?
Just to get people exercise that muscle because we are all so afraid of offending.
Somebody else, particularly in a work context, are our people especially and I think this is owners and Senior leaders, even just department leaders and so forth, are people?
30:54
You have to keep in mind, they are so scared.
We are the one that authorizes their checks, I mean, ultimately the owner, right?
The GM.
But I think Position of authority.
That person has the power over my livelihood, and we forget that, you know what I mean?
31:09
Yeah, well, you know, I'm gonna go back to disk real quick, you know, when we started teaching disc to all the people in our company, you know, at first everybody was just like taking it in, but not really using it and then they're starting to see it the field or with Larry and I, and our Behavior.
31:27
They're starting to recognize it.
And then we got to the point where everybody was very Be comfortable with it.
And like for me I'm a very high D.
So what I'm not getting what I want.
I'm not nice to be around.
I'm steamrolling I'm bullying.
And so I would stand up in the morning meeting.
31:43
I learned to do this to time.
Say, look, I want you guys when I start to bully or steamroll or get impatient, you need to do the timeout sign and say, Eric you doing your Heidi thing, right?
And it took a long time but we got there.
32:01
So that I could have somebody who made 15 bucks an hour doing the time outside on a job.
When I showed up and I didn't like what was going on and go on, dude, you're steamrolling all of us, can we explain what's going on, so that you can have a better understanding, right?
32:18
It took years for us to get to that point.
And to be honest, I'm someone with not tons of humility, I took some humility on my part to be able to accept that feedback and Larry had a A huge part in that for me because he would be coaching me like, look, you've got to take feedback from everybody, dude.
32:37
You need to show people that You're vulnerable.
Like, that's foreign to me.
I grew up in locker rooms if you don't show vulnerability, that's insane.
But it works.
Yeah man.
It's so funny hearing you guys talk because I feel like Chris and I like could basically lay our story over the top of it.
32:56
And people would barely know the difference.
Like that's that's been our relationship to is that in many.
Ways Chris has been the voice, the softer voice of like, okay, dial it back, a tan, the Enneagram, like, right the Challenger.
All those things are the roles that I fit into and Chris has had to remind me like, you know, we all have certain strengths naturally and it's like don't spend any more time, developing that, like, that's just good to go already.
33:22
And he would constantly have to remind me like the the seriousness, the emotionally pointed Version of me that comes in and says, this is not meeting the standard that we're looking for, and I'm clearly angry about it.
Like that was a muscle.
33:39
I didn't need to learn how to flex anymore.
Like, that was a natural gifting so he's like, you need to continue to try to bring these other aspects of your character to the room.
Less less, anger, more love.
Develop the love.
Peace your the anger It's very effective when you need it but we're overclocked on the anger part that's you know we're good there that quota is Phil.
34:01
So I can relate to where said branded I'm gonna I'm gonna you know second what you just said.
What Chris just said is what Larry says to be daily.
Yeah.
Dude.
What's all the anger?
And it's like, I don't know, I guess that's my default motivator right?
34:20
Yeah.
It's true.
I mean and you know what, it actually taught me at the same time as not to be afraid of anger because I because I generally and the conflict avoider, I'm the relationship maintainer to a fault.
Yeah.
34:35
And so like Brandon observing Brandon in the conversations we've had, has helped me develop my assertiveness right and in my ability to go to that.
Anger.
Feels like the wrong word, when we say it out loud because we tend to associate that with, like hurting other people.
34:51
But there is a point of anger.
That's very productive like, well, we need to Rally the team, it's an urgent moment.
There's whatever there's a place for that in a business but it's what we all tend to over.
Use it right?
Was gonna say that what it creates a sphere.
Yes.
And exact and we can't live in fear all the time, right.
35:09
But sometimes, there needs to be some edginess in that.
Then it comes in handy.
Yeah.
Like guys we got to get this F and job done today.
Like, you know, like and I'm not taking no for an answer and I don't care if we're there to in the morning.
Nobody's going home.
35:24
Like there's some anger in that here.
Yeah, and sometimes that's what we need to hear, but The next day I need to be able to turn around and say, I love you man.
You killed it yesterday you rally.
Like there has to be that balance and look it took me a really long time to learn how to do that.
35:42
It's still it's about is a that will be a lifelong struggle for me.
Yeah well and I you know, kind of going back to where this started.
I think that's the reality for most of us as Leaders is that we need to realize that our continued development is going to be a lifelong thing.
35:58
It's like we talked a little bit.
Maybe this will come up later.
It's like Jim time like getting in and doing our work out.
I hate it all the way to the point where the first song turns on, and I do my first rep.
I hate it, I don't want to do it.
36:14
I'd hate it from Beyond the way to dry time, I do.
And like, I hit this hum first-world.
My problem is, I have to leave my house and walk like an open, Breezeway to go to my garage, which is where my gym equipment is, well, right now, it's cold and rainy in the Civic Northwest and I hate that 12 foot walk through the cold anyways, it's so such a sound so desperate but I hate have the life moammar, you know, dude.
36:42
I know I will do weeping and gnashing of teeth later, but yeah.
Well it before we get into all the self-care and the working out and all that and I definitely want to go deep on that.
Let's go to the third thing that we talked about, which is having all that self identity wrapped up in our business because and I would like Larry to speak a little bit about this because, He he really Larry's, been very honest and vulnerable on the show many times about this was like his biggest struggle.
37:09
Yeah.
Well, when we sold the business, I was Consulting with the business of bought us and it just wasn't clicking for like months.
I was like, what is wrong with me?
I was working out and relationship.
Going on all these, everything was working, but nothing was clicking and I think was like six months later somebody talk was talking about self but self identity identity.
37:29
Whether was a podcast or a I'm like, that's it.
My identity was with the business that was sold.
And I struggle Consulting when it's not my business anymore, and it was like, and I had to figure out how to get through it, and it wasn't just their Larry, you struggled the whole time we were in business, because if, if one technician did one thing wrong on a job, oh yeah, you took it as your whole person was being called into question, but now it all goes together.
38:01
There.
Well, there was that but it would ruin the relationships that I created.
It would also ruin your relationship with the technician.
Oh yeah.
Oh well.
Like how explain?
How this Larry?
And be a dick why I take it personally.
I'm like, you guys?
Yeah, so Larry would come in with this Vibe of everybody hears fucking me over.
38:23
Oh yeah, yeah, right and they can feel that, right?
So, and I'm sitting here trying to build a culture of Feeling good in Larry.
One day, when everything's going smooth is coming in and hugging people and high fives and loving on him.
38:41
And then the next day after we had some problem.
Everybody's out to get me.
Well, dude, there's a lot of instability in that what Simon cynics, number one thing and start with why they want stability at workability safety isil are and I would have go around after go around of like, dude, you can't do this, we're High.
39:02
The opposite.
I was like the chess player like, I, you know, people could be mad.
I'm just like, yeah, whatever.
We'll figure it out, fix it, you know, like when we sold, I didn't care.
I was like, great.
I'm on to the next.
I didn't think about it for five minutes.
You subscribe.
39:19
It's kind of interesting though, the way that that showed up because I think I think for me a similar thing can happen.
And of course Larry you and I are kind of on opposite ends of the spectrum, I think by default, but it would show up the same way for me because I'm a loyalist, right?
So in my mind, I've got this unspoken loyalty that that I believe I'm living out and, and committed to, with my team and I'm just expecting this same kind of loyalty in.
39:48
And so when something would happen, a failure to follow process or you know do inspecting, what we expect, or whatever the case may be, I took it as a personal Onslaught to me the same way.
It wasn't necessarily that my identity was wrapped up in the role, which it clearly was more the often than I'd like to admit, but it was just that loyalists in me was like, well, dude.
40:09
You're screwing like, how dare you let me down.
Like, aren't you in this right?
Aren't we in This Together?
Aren't you loyal to what?
We're trying to build here.
And so I can, it's like, That's my version of it, right?
But it's the same thing, it's that it's that it's some version of this self-identity.
40:24
What the role, the title, the company or whatever.
I'm gonna, I'm gonna share it a little bit different angle just and it's I was debating is Brenna was just talking.
What do I want to share this?
Don't want to go here.
I'll let you know when you're done.
40:40
Yeah, so we can always edit the tell Larry Larry buckle up, here we go.
Larry, just sat up and see ya.
Chris, I'm looking forward to this.
Come on.
So when I so I own the State Farm Agency, I talked about that and a lot actually.
40:58
Yeah, quite a bit.
Yeah, very good.
I always love to throw that out.
No.
But so this whole self identity thing and identifying with our business what was really rad about that State Farm business?
Is it created a lot of points of affirmation for me.
41:14
It was a rich source of affirmation, I could go sell the things I could bring, I could sell some new client households and make some money that day.
And and I go home to my wife and such a great day, but I had all these points of affirmation also, to the extent.
That sounds so egotistical.
41:31
But like I had billboards with my photo up there and my State Farm ads and all that kind of stuff.
And people would come up to me, they'd meet me, I'd meet people in the hell.
Hey, you're that State Farm guy, and it sounds ridiculous.
But there was all these points.
Affirmation, I could spend my money on Community events and be that guy who does cool community events.
41:53
But in hindsight right in marriage counseling, you can see where the story is going later on, as we got counseling and stuff, what I ended up realizing is.
Those points of affirmation were impartial in the sense that I knew that all people knew of me was what I allowed them.
42:18
Them to know of me, right?
They knew the Chris nordyke that I had chosen to project that I chose to spend money on billboards and all these kinds of things.
I I created the image they had of me and so, I could go home from work every day.
Feeling 70% great about myself, and I'd get home to my wife and my kids.
42:37
My young kids at the time.
And and, of course, my wife is just struggling to keep the wheels on with young kids in the house and all the things.
And she's a part-time operating room nurse.
So she had a job.
And kids and all the things.
And I came to her, with this question of Mi is awesome, as everybody says, I am Because I know a lot of people telling me I was awesome.
42:58
I was a sales leader within the brand.
I was a pretty successful agent the community things.
The marketing, the Billboards, all this stuff.
But I still had this question inside me of tell me.
I'm as awesome as everybody's got me cracked up to be.
And you know, let's face it.
My my wife at times was not impressed, right?
43:17
That's fair.
Yeah.
And and it it really destabilize me riding, there was a lot of -, you know, behaviors that came from that, right?
If if I come home from work and my Not, you know, she doesn't greet me at the door with the kiss, right?
But we don't, you know, there isn't the physical affection, you know that I'm hoping for at the end of the day did get more affirmation.
43:36
Tell me.
I'm as good as everybody says, I am anyway.
That created a really dangerous Dynamic where unbeknownst to me, my wife felt this pressure that she had to make me, okay?
And I don't know if that's something that other business, people business owners deal with, but that was a very Very real Dynamic for me that I had this ability.
43:59
As a business owner, the title eventually, like the money and employees that look to me for their livelihood, all that stuff was just so affirming gamma successful business guy, but it, it didn't satisfy that desire that he didn't understand what I'm saying.
44:18
At least several taking that question to these other areas of my life and it was really fracturing those relationships because essentially put this burden on them, my wife Particular where she had to provide that affirmation on top of all the taking care of herself and taking care of the kids and and being a professional and all that stuff.
44:37
Chris, I think the question is, why did you require that?
Yeah, well I think that I don't even think it's affirmation.
It almost sounds more like adulation Yeah.
I mean, dude, you're on a billboard in it?
44:53
I gotta.
I gotta look this word up really good.
Yeah.
What, you know, I think, what I learned about, what I've learned about myself, is I grew up in a family culture, where your value was in your performance, you know, it's like your value was inextricably.
45:11
Tied to how successful you were in your professional career, artistically.
I'm a in music, my parents are musicians.
As well.
And so it's like, either you're performing up in front of church or what have you and that that is your value is how other people see you and how you present yourself another kind of stuff.
45:29
So I just I grew up kind of in that family culture of you are with other people, say you are.
So I think that was a big driver for me is that I only got attention.
When I was special, when I was above average, that's when I got the praise from my parents and that was the dynamic they had.
45:45
Yeah, so yeah, how do you live up to that?
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Right.
So, that all kinds of Demands and expectations on my wife of how I needed her to interact with me and so forth, but I think it shows up though even under other circumstances, even if you didn't grow up in an environment where that performance piece is so highlighted, I mean, just think about it as business owners and key leaders people do what we say pretty much all day long, right?
46:11
Then we go home and we can't get our kids to take out the trash on a consistent basis, that's another good point, right?
It's like, like I did, in fact, I think Wife has quoted me before is saying I go to work and people do what I want all day.
And I come home and I can't get you guys to do a damn thing, right?
46:28
And it's slightly, you're not Panama.
Yeah.
And she's held onto that, you know, of course check.
Yeah.
But it's like, I think it's just part of that environment piece like you just get used to the surroundings where your word has a lot of weight or it, or it carries with it.
46:44
This, this influence that a lot of times we get home and That's just a big fat reality check because our kids and our lives.
Our spouses see us all of it.
They see the dirty, the dirty laundry all the way out and it's we're not nearly as impressive as we'd like to be often.
47:12
Hey everyone.
Eric here with blue collar Nation podcasting, I would just like to take a moment to talk about my favorite magazine for the cleaning and restoration industry and that is seeing our magazine.
I've been a longtime reader of seen our magazine and now my good friend, Michelle Blevins has purchased that magazine and is growing at an amazing rate.
47:33
So if you're in the cleaning and restoration industry, you will be excited to hear that.
Not only can you get see in our magazine.
A but you can also get it for free in print form.
Actual paper, you to sit on your couch and read it, which if you're my age, that's appealing.
47:53
So all you have to do is go to CN R magazine.com and that see a ND, our magazine.com to get your free subscription and it's even in print.
So if you want to stay on top of what's going on in the cleaning restoration industry and here, you know, You'll get to see a lot of cool articles by a lot of very smart people.
48:16
Go to see amdr magazine.
Brandon, I would like to dig a little, you know, Larry and Chris have been both very transparent about, you know, what was hard for them?
What was hard for you, with your identity?
48:32
Like being a GM, a big Restoration company or like, yeah, was the struggle for you.
I think the biggest struggle for me was living up to the Cadence that I was projecting.
It's like Chris talks a lot about the Imposter syndrome and, you know, there's a there can be Pretty large gap between where we want to be and where we are currently, right?
48:56
And, and so, for me is, I'm kind of like, by default.
I can always see what can be.
So a lot of people call it super critical and it is at times, but it's also a bit Visionary.
It's just, I can walk into a situation and very easily see 10 steps in front of us.
49:12
It could look like this and I'm always excited about the 10 steps, not this one.
And so there's this thing where it's like like I'm constantly trying to build a culture, right.
I think I'm getting the vibe that Eric can relate.
I'm constantly trying to create this culture of we're on this higher than life mission.
49:33
Because we're going that place and that place is beautiful and amazing and powerful and we're building a legacy on.
But then when the Hypes off, and I'm not in front of the classroom, telling people how we're going to get there and how amazing it is, then all of a sudden there's this personal reality check of yeah, fucking right.
49:51
Dude, click like you want to be there, you ain't there by a long shot and then of course, everyone's quick to jump on your case and tell you how you're not there because they're so self-loathing, right?
But that's a whole of that bad indifferent and he's all of a sudden, you realize the work and all this is gonna face in between and and there, you know, look it.
50:14
What's I can't remember.
Who said embrace the suck, you know, Matt, and if rossella somebody like that, yes, like You all of a sudden it's in your face.
Like I have to embrace the suck.
Yeah.
Is this Brandon?
What's interesting is it's the exact same thing.
As you said about going to do your workout.
50:32
Yes.
You have to like, work yourself up.
Like, it's like, yeah, I'm going to work out.
I'm going to get fit.
Fuck, I gotta drive 50.
I gotta walk 15 feet.
Are you kidding me?
It's cold out there and and I can relate to that.
Yeah, yeah, it's funny, I won't. go into it, I think more so I just can't but there was a bit of a breakup of a marriage in my story, one of my professional stories and it was crushing for me to have felt like in that moment that I had not reached that Pinnacle that ultimately I had failed to get the company to the level that I was wanting to build that I I saw in front of us and and there was no ability for me to Circle back around and complete the journey, right?
51:29
For a multitude of reasons.
And that was very devastating for me for a prolonged period of time.
It took me awhile to lick my wounds and come out of that space because I felt misunderstood I felt like I could like I will always, I won't have a chance to correct that or fix it, or bring it to fruition or do whatever.
51:51
Is that I was trying to do and that was pretty devastating.
So I don't, I'm not sure how that completely fits in, but I think there is some version of my You know, my personal value was tied up and whether or not I was going to hit that goal more so than the adventure itself and I think that that can be really dangerous, right?
52:10
It's like I felt like I wasn't enjoying the journey.
It was all about getting from A to Z and if I don't reach Z, I'm a failure.
Hmm and I think so, that's a thing for me.
I think I wrestle with that all the time.
I wrestle with that right now with floodlight and some of the things that we're doing, like, I want it to be all the things, right.
52:31
I got to remember that the journey is half the frickin battle.
I mean, hanging out with you two, not to be cheese, is like those are two relationships by wasn't grinding and doing what we were trying to do for our business.
I may have never met two, guys like you and, and you guys are worth knowing like that's part of the joy of the adventure.
52:47
I need to get better at because of that identity issue, though.
I just struggle with it.
It's all about the results, and it's a results.
Like, it's the landing spot, right, you know.
Yeah.
I mean, Brandon, What you just said that's me every single thing you just said is what I would have answered.
53:05
If somebody that's me.
Larry's laughing, no money, really good comebacks for you, you've practiced all of them.
I got them, they just come off because he's just comes with you all the time with this.
But my old thing is I want to achieve these things and I can constantly patients feel it.
53:25
Well, no, hold on.
You let me finish because no know what.
Larry just said.
Goes with what I was going to say.
I always feel the clock ticking.
Oh yeah.
It's like I'm running out of time.
I'm 55 years old.
I've got this.
I got that.
I want to do this.
I want to do that.
53:40
I want to own this.
I want to have that, you know.
And it's just like, every day that ticks away.
I'm pissed.
Yeah.
Because I'm like, no, I don't have that yet.
Yeah, I don't have that yet.
And that jacks up your mental health.
Oh, man.
Yeah, it is, dr.
53:56
Rome who we learned just from how he says that these Die Young.
Oh man, because we are never satisfied.
Yep.
Doing a lot of lessons really quick then.
Yeah, I can't.
Yeah.
Yeah, hurry up, dude.
54:12
Very slight.
Get a ball in.
So when we drop when you drop cording to reach all the goals that you wanted, Well, let's well let's let's I think that's a perfect segue into talking a little bit about caring for ourselves.
54:28
Because, you know, if you read any literature and entrepreneurs and mental health, physical health, where generally much more apt to be alcoholics or drug abusers, much more apt to have depression and anxiety.
Much more apt to commit, suicide and all kinds of other things that are not positive, right?
54:48
I mean, I always say that entrepreneurs and is an extreme sport.
Yeah.
And if you watch any extreme sports, a lot of those guys don't make it middle-aged, right?
So you guys have been very transparent about what it is that you are doing to try to take better care of yourselves and become better at what you do and the process I'd like to do a deep dive with with all of us on that because we've all had some sort of Journey with this.
55:16
So why don't you guys take it away?
You did a whole pod House on this weeks ago, well I appreciate you bringing it up in the first place because Chris and I really toiled over whether or not we wanted to release that episode.
And in fact I we ended up kind of using my wife.
55:34
My wife being like the ultimate connector.
I'm like, okay, how does this episode land for you to?
You feel like this has got value or is it just kind of put you in a corner of guilt and shame kind of scenario?
So, anyways, we appreciate you putting that out because because we were nervous about it.
55:50
We didn't want it to come across as being judgmental, right.
It was like, I just think I didn't take it that way.
I just, I mean, look, I'm already kind of like, thinking about these things but to me it was more like you were just telling your truth.
That's your story.
Yeah, yeah.
56:05
Right on.
That's what we feel like, you know, for sure.
It's why we wanted to say it for certain but Chris why don't you start on that?
Because you've been into this, a lot longer.
Yeah, you know, the way I'm wired, I'm very impulsive.
II have this bias toward relationship and experience with others and and I'm a talker, I'm all the time.
56:26
All those things?
Think Larry and I share a lot of these traits.
I've generally been low on discipline.
I generally am not very structured, right?
Like my native, my native profile is not one that's just inherently structured, routine based, all of those things.
56:47
And In a lot of ways that benefits me.
Like, that's part of my superpower is just my flexibility and so forth and my action bias and whatnot.
But, but as I've gotten older, and I've grown in my career, and, of course, risen to levels of leadership, that's just doesn't work.
57:05
It doesn't like, it's varied.
It can be very dysfunctional, right?
When other people are trying to follow you.
And so this whole thing of self discipline and Order, Just it was just glaring, like, I needed more order in my life systems said I needed systems and just for me, the physical disciplines was just fuel for that.
57:29
It made me feel good about myself.
It was when I started really getting serious about working out back like towards my last couple years and State Farm, it was when kind of it really launch for me, I've always kind of lifted weights.
Go always wanted to just be Beach muscle.
57:45
You know, it's like, I always wanted to have just some whatever and so I had always been the gym but I didn't take it very seriously.
And when I train for State Farm actually put on 20 pounds because I had per diem and our hotel is across the street from a Red Lobster and we had the biscuits anyway.
So like that was when I started with stay far and that was my first experience of corporate life of, excuse me, all expenses and all kind of stuff and I gained 20 pounds in a period of about two months and that shocked me and and so that was when I started a serious about.
58:12
But what I noticed is There was a direct correlation for me, the more I discipline myself physically, the more, I felt like that muscle grew and I was able to start disciplining myself in terms of having a daily routine like, like book ending my day with some admin time to actually put quote notes in dash.
58:33
A lot of people relate to that, right?
It's like just to have those consistent disciplines, they became easier when I started working out every morning or what.
What now has become my standard is I'm a four-day week guy come hell or high water, whether I have weights or a gym or if it's cross who workout, I've just it's been that way for me for apart from injuries, probably the better part of three or four years, like four days a week workout.
59:04
I don't negotiate.
And that during that same period of time.
I feel like I've grown immensely in the other disciplines.
I need for my business.
So you feel there's a carryover by you making yourself, discipline physically to then showing up on the meeting, five minutes early instead of five minutes late and whatever else, right?
59:27
Well, 100%.
And I gave us example in that last podcast of how a bean in a CrossFit gym and having that one set left to finish while everybody's walking out on, if you remember that I do and I literally I was so it was so hard for me.
It's funny to say it out loud, right?
59:44
This workout was really hard for me but I there was something emotional that released in me like there was some kind of connection was made I ended up bawling my eyes out sitting in my car in the parking lot.
I barely held on to get away from all my CrossFit buddies.
I barely held on but it was just this Rush of deep satisfaction with myself.
1:00:04
No one else knew.
No one else knew how much I was grinding it out inside myself to finish those last couple sets.
No.
Else knew except for me, it was like a big fat slap on the back to myself.
You Got What It Takes nordyke.
1:00:20
Yeah.
You you can finish when it when it matters, you know.
It's just one of those little affirmations.
And again, it I feel really dorky saying that out loud but it was meaningful to me.
Yeah.
Like it made some kind of connection inside me at.
I've got what it takes and I it wasn't anybody else tell me that?
1:00:37
But it was one of those moments of Truth inside myself.
Not somebody else.
Commenting.
Hey dude.
Look, you know, I see your abs or, you know hey nice biceps or anybody affirming.
The fact that I've been working out, it was me knowing how hard it was in that moment for me to grind that out.
1:00:54
And I did, yeah, well, I was going to say, it sounds like it's a, it's a case of where you finally didn't need that.
Yes, it was internal opposed to external.
That's right.
1:01:09
Yes, yeah.
I think it was great that you put this out because Many of us have been through something like that and we don't realize it and you were telling that story and I listened to it.
I was driving somewhere and like that is so cool.
I can remember different times.
I'm really happy with myself but nobody else has any idea.
1:01:26
Yeah it just also goes to show you the value of it, right?
Larry.
It's like look how powerful that self-belief is versus the the affirmation that we're trying to get from our environment, right?
Whether it be relationships Or Rewards or whatever the case may be.
1:01:44
There's so much power in internal affirmation that comes from following through on something or pushing beyond that point that you thought you were going to quit or you know whatever the case may be, when I was in the military, we used to there was this thing.
1:02:00
Like you saw that you talked about embracing the suck like there was something so powerful about a 30-mile ruck march as an E5 or whatever.
When I would go cruising up next to somebody and I knew for certain they were sucking way worse.
And I was like, I almost got a second wind, like, it was just like, like, I would get that power of, like, yes, I can do this.
1:02:19
I'm more powerful than I, than I think.
And that, I think that carries over into these kinds of environments to.
And that's one of the things I've gotten from working out is that it just makes me believe that.
I'll do the next thing I say I'm gonna do like if I can commit to getting up and even though it sucks and walking by 12 feet whining about it, there's just this reality that I have more confidence that the next time I'm faced with a decision and I say in my mind I'm going to do that.
1:02:46
I'm going to complete that or we're going to build this thing or release.
This thing.
I'm at least that much closer to believing it because I've got some yeses and some wins that I've proved to myself throughout the week that I can do it.
Yeah, here's another example of the product.
So what this is produced in me, I didn't even tell Brandon this he knew I was out late, but so last Friday we came back from travel and I had, we have a video, we had a video, we were working on promotion Video for the new Master course.
1:03:13
Thing that we're launching in and I'm like, I have to get this done because I wanted it up on the landing page, right?
It's Friday.
It's 4:30 Mike and I had other stuff.
And I just I'm like a half to get this done before I can go to my weekend.
I did 105 takes of this stupid three-minute video.
1:03:35
I didn't go home that night until like 9:05 p.m. on a stinkin Friday night after a probably a 60 hour travel week, you know?
But but it didn't, it didn't matter and there's no glue.
I don't say there's no glory in that but but I couldn't have done that 10 years ago.
1:03:53
I couldn't have done that, I wouldn't but Was there was there was this Supply inside me from those moments like on the floor that CrossFit gym where it's like, I can do this.
I'm going to get it on the next one.
It just so happened.
I had to tell myself that like 99 times no joke but that stick-to-itiveness and that trust in myself that I can get this done.
1:04:17
Tonight was formed the lot of it in those moments in the gym is weird as that sounds, you know what I mean?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
See you guys.
I think the third all three of you are kind of on the same page with that and I gained something different.
1:04:34
But for me, it's there.
So riding bicycles is my thing.
Yeah, and riding bicycles on road bikes is a very painful experience if done well.
And so I would go out on these group rides, you know, three nights a week when, you know, the whole time we had Shamrock for the most part and, you know, for me, it was more About anybody's ever seen me.
1:04:56
I'm built like an NFL linebacker.
Not like a bicycle Rider, right.
You know.
I'm not, I don't have a typical Rider build, but I love to ride and I would go out and I'm super competitive by nature and it was like the time everyday, cuz the business didn't give me that competitive Instinct gratification that I was getting all the time, right?
1:05:17
And I really needed that.
And if I didn't have that, I'd be angry all the time.
So bike, riding with groups with other Well where I could go kick people's asses made me happy.
So therefore I would walk into work the next day and be a much nicer person.
1:05:34
So you know, in the other that was that and then for me it was suffering like that I could suffer more than you.
Yeah.
Yes, at my site, you, we would get on these like certain roads and Larry kind of knows and they people would take off it was it's a two-mile race on, you know, I would literally turn myself inside and out to the point where I'm like, Probably going to vomit but I'm beating people.
1:05:57
That should be beating me, right?
So then when I would get in the parking lot, I would smugly look at them as they rolled in 30 seconds.
Later being like you should beat me every time, but I'm more, mentally, strong, and more willing to suffer than you are.
And then I could take that to work and say, like you said Chris, I can go do 105 takes if it tastes, if that's what it means.
1:06:19
Yes, I've I'm training myself to do things.
I they're uncomfortable.
Yeah, laughing at me but that's what I told you.
That's what I got out of it.
Thank God, he went biking and he got that aggressive on it out of his system.
1:06:36
Yeah.
But I mean, look at what what happens?
If I don't go biking 90 its misery?
I implode yeah I do I can totally appreciate that.
I think that that's part of the one of the things I've realized is how mentally weak.
1:06:52
I actually am like, I'd say It's crazy and of course, in context with other people in my sphere, you know, I can definitely yeah.
I don't take him on every day.
Well man, it's just like, I look at a lot of people that I really admire and respect and I just look at what they've been able to go through, right?
1:07:09
And I think we did an episode of quite a long time ago, about Elon Musk and love them.
Hate them, whatever.
It's kind of not the point but but there's a reality that when you listen to some of these men and women's stories in terms of what they were processing and And toiling with and the weight that they were carrying, when they were winning in their Adventure, it makes me sometimes.
1:07:31
Just look at myself and go, dude, like like we've got a long way to go before the bars set that high that I feel like I'm mentally prepared to go through that kind of suffering to create the win or the goal.
You know that I'm trying to go after and so.
1:07:47
So it's like like you saying that that in terms of your ability to look at somebody and say I can suffer longer Then you and I can handle it mentally better than you.
That is something.
I mean, that is the shit that separates.
But I was, yeah, the lead of the whole point of that was, I was going out riding in these groups purposely to try to grow that just like, Chris was trying to grow the discipline.
1:08:11
You're trying to grow the discipline.
Yeah, you know, of like, no, I'm am gonna walk the 15 feet to my garage even if I'm like, dead tired.
Because this is what I do.
Hey, did you guys know that Larry and I rebranded morning Tech, meaning to Super Tech University?
1:08:37
Yeah, we did.
And we're super excited, new logo, new colors, and also a bunch of new packages.
We realize that it's not a one-size-fits-all thing for this kind of training, right?
So we needed to have packages for everybody's needs, you know, because some people wanted less than morning tech meeting at.
1:08:58
Maybe they only wanted a couple This week, right?
So we have packages starting now it just forty seven dollars per month, right?
For a couple days training week and then we have packages that for people who wanted more than we were providing.
So they wanted some coaching, they wanted some other stuff.
1:09:14
So now there are five packages to choose from at Super Tech you.com go to our new website, should protect you.com and check out the packages.
There's descriptions for each one.
There has to be e one that would fit your company very, very well.
1:09:32
So again, rebranded Super Tech University, just go to super tech you.com and check out all the cool new packages.
Okay, dude, we got to get off to 15 feet.
You guys are doing like 50 mile ride.
1:09:48
Chris is like doing a fork out.
Once you've done the 15 feet, you're going in and killing yourself in the garage and they're working.
Yes, he is.
No, you can see it.
Burn it in the in the podcast I mean you've completely reconfigured your body you don't do that without effort.
1:10:06
Yeah that's true it's true tell me more though about what?
Oh I'm you're so awesome.
I knew I wanted to come on this show for a reason he looked up the word adulation and his phone and then that's right.
I got to look that up, get it somewhere.
1:10:23
Well Larry let's finish with you on this and then we'll move to our kind of final points.
I mean, like Larry's Larry's, Has consistently worked out.
Like II was when we go startup phase, I just turned into a fat shit.
I just put all my energy into that, I just blow up like a balloon and then all of a sudden it's like crisis mode and then I go all the other way and I'm all in on training, right?
1:10:47
And I need to learn how to not do that and I'm in the process of doing that now.
But Larry's much more like not as Extreme as me with these things but he's consistent.
Yeah, but it's a mental workout.
It's not always a physical workout, it's more for your mind.
1:11:04
And I think you guys eluded this on your podcast, that, you know, you can work out.
The body part is secondary to the mind because when you get, when I get done with the workout, I can take on anything, you know, having a bad day, or a tough week, or everything went down to shit.
1:11:21
And all of a sudden, I do my workouts in there.
I'm good afterwards.
So it's like just plugging myself in for a while and I'm good Yeah, I totally relate to that.
Yeah, I think it's so true.
I think that's probably the toughest thing for people that work out consistently and they've found something like that, that works or or, you know, for others.
1:11:41
It may not just be working out.
It could be some other form of commitment to something like that, but that's the part that's hard to explain to people.
It's, you know, and that's that thing.
That once you do it and you experience it, that's the thing that makes you keep coming back.
1:11:57
It's, it's like I make 15-foot walk because I know how I'm gonna feel when it's over.
And when it's over I have done something that a small percentage of people have done that day and I already feel like I can kick ass.
Right.
And yeah just to add on to that.
It's not always when it's over.
1:12:13
It's like when you start it like 10 or 15 minutes into it.
Bam.
You're like you're good.
I'm like I'm good.
I could stop and I'd be good but you finish up your workout to make yourself feel even better.
Yeah.
Whatever.
They call them?
What are they from all the endorphins and Dopamine and all that stuff.
1:12:31
Yeah, you know I think I think the underlying theme were talking about here and you've said this word several times is suffering.
The value of suffering.
I think, for a lot of my life, I didn't hang in the suffering long enough to see the value and then eventually something came along and motivated me to push through and then you start to reap the rewards of it and it's it's own motivation.
1:12:55
Brandon was talking about this.
Like when you start seeing the results of your suffering in the mirror, You're like ooh I almost said it's so worth it.
Yeah.
Right Stephanie you don't want to lose it you know those biscuits that you're affecting everything cheesy methods, right?
1:13:11
Those Red Lobster biscuits.
I worked off now but it's so true, the value of suffering and I that spilled over in so many other areas of my life, my marriage, everything else.
And just in terms of like you say, if I don't get that workout in there is something going on about not going through the suffering that In that affects how I interact with the rest of my world, the rest of the day.
1:13:34
But when I can, when I suffer myself, the first part of the day, everything else is lighter easier, right.
All of that stuff, I think to I'm sorry Brandon.
That's okay.
I think you like I saw this as a young person in junior high and high school.
1:13:50
I you know, I played football, and in the summer, we have three days, you know, it's the worst thing ever, right?
You're just suffering, three times a day and You know, I remember even being 15 years old and seeing guys that would just they were just caving under the pressure of the suffering, right?
1:14:09
And I always remember thinking to myself like I'm not the most talented guy on this field but you know what I can make my mark by billing willing gladly suffering.
Yeah right.
And all of a sudden I'm separating myself from people that should be separating themselves from me.
1:14:26
Yeah.
And I've just taken that mentality.
Forward forever because what 20% is the 80/20 rule, right?
You get 10 people.
To people are willing to do what you guys do every day with your CrossFit, right?
1:14:43
The other eight or eating twinkies and Ding Dongs and you're gonna beat them at everything.
Mmm, eventually.
Yeah.
So let's hang here for a minute.
I know you've got an agenda but I wanted to just talk about something.
We want to get your Opinion on this.
1:15:01
So I think for for us, it's easy for in general, I think it's easy for people to look at like, some aspect of physical fitness, or, you know, training or something where we're putting ourselves in a position where we need to stretch ourselves or create new levels of discipline and how positive that is.
1:15:17
One of the things that I think we don't talk about very often is what does it look like to mentally put yourself in a position where self-reflection is being used in the same way?
Here's, here's what I mean by that.
One of the things that I'm realizing, the older I get is that it's very difficult for me to disconnect the ownership and responsibility that I have in different experiences, whether it be failed relationships or, you know, you know, projects or Adventures that do go a certain way, or don't go a certain way or a bad interaction with a business partner or a possible Prospect, or whatever the case may be and how by default, it's just very easy for us to either do two things.
1:16:01
We're either going to create an Why that thing was the other person's fault, or we're going to numb it, ignore it compartmentalize, it move on.
And one of the things that I'm realizing is, that, that those methods have continued to have compounding, negative effects on my ability to believe in myself, or to take larger and harder commitments, or whatever the case may be.
1:16:23
And so, one of the disciplines that I feel like that I've been trying to learn is, is being able to spend more time, looking at a situation.
Ation and saying what part of this regardless?
What part of this can I own?
What what part of this do I need to sit in long enough to process through all the phases of suffering, all the phases of morning or whatever it is.
1:16:48
So that I actually experience what this situation should be teaching me does that?
Does that make sense?
And I don't feel like that is something that very many people understand the true value of and I I don't think we do a good job of encouraging people to do it to include myself.
1:17:06
It's just something that I've been wrestling with this year more.
And it's caused me to look at some very interesting experiences that I've had in my past and go.
Okay, but, but what, part of this should I own, what, what part of this uncomfortable feeling that I have?
1:17:23
When I look at it, do I need to hang in long enough to get the lesson out of it?
That I should?
Mmm.
If you guys feel me on that, well, if I understand it correctly, I can Speak for myself.
So like when I'm reflecting I break everything into two pieces, The Logical and rational or the emotional, and people park, right?
1:17:43
So what I've recognized in myself is that I'm very strong in the rational and logical part and I'm very, very weak at the people and emotional part.
So usually for me to self-reflect it's going to be all right I got to sit down.
1:17:59
Look, okay, you know what's what?
With this whole logical portion of whatever it is that I'm trying to figure out.
But then I recognized that I miss social cues and and people's feelings and so much.
I have to go to like Larry or my wife and say, alright, I got this part, I'm pretty sure I'm right here.
1:18:21
I have no, I have such a blind spot here.
I need help.
Right.
So like I can't self reflect on my own because I can't be trusted to do so, mmm.
For the whole 360 degrees of it.
Oh my God.
Yeah.
Okay.
1:18:37
I can respect that, guys.
You guys are so going so deep in these structured reflection, and I'm just reflecting on, whatever's happening, I put in my head and people are happy.
Everybody's happy and I'm getting along with everybody.
It's generally good.
But Eric goes and it's actually helpful because he presents these things are not.
1:18:56
I never thought of that and you're coming up with these things brand.
That I'd never even you guys have this way.
Thinking that's just deeper in different areas.
Like Eric brings these things up to him like wolf course.
And then that's all I do.
1:19:11
Is your yay or nay and I move on so I don't know.
Yeah, I don't like that's all the feedback.
You're gonna give me a like, I still feel like I'm suffering alone here.
I wish I could help because Eric comes with me, those who don't like what you talking about.
1:19:28
Like I don't know what is.
It's like Brandon said, I'm thinking ten steps ahead and you're just like, I don't know what you're talking about.
Yeah.
And I'm and I'm agonizing over the That we haven't done yet.
Yeah, that's what I do man.
I know 30 weeks plus half the listeners, but the other half is so engaged.
1:19:45
And yeah, you know what, I don't agree that I'll tell you why.
So guys, real quick we did it.
We did a show on masculinity with our friend Bruce DeLoach and I called I was getting kind of bored with the podcast a little bit.
We felt like we had done like 30 episodes in a row that we're all the same you know and I'm like gotta do something out so I called up Bruce and I'm like let's do masculinity in the trade. 8 and he was like, wow, nice one.
1:20:10
Well, hold on.
And he goes, mmm.
You know, like and I said, all right, I get it.
I'm either going to lose every listener that we took two years to build or maybe it'll go halfway, okay?
Right.
So we did it and and it's a lot like the conversation that we're all having today.
1:20:27
Very similar.
Yeah.
No, I left that podcast going.
We're fucked.
That was that was, that was so hot, you know?
Hug.
Fili and thoughts and feelings and all that, right?
Yeah.
The highest to this day, the highest listen episode we've ever had.
1:20:46
I love those shows that it shows that that like topics like that topics, like you guys were talking about with, you know, your Fitness.
I think the things that we're talking about today, people might not feel comfortable talking openly about it.
Yeah, but they're interested in it and they want to be better.
1:21:04
That's so true.
It's weird too because We we tend to well speak for myself.
Sometimes I really look at our show in general and I feel like, man, we're being too.
Lukewarm, like, like, we just were not quite brass in up the way that we should.
1:21:20
When we know that people are hungry for these kinds of conversations.
So it's like, it's good to hear you guys wrestle with that stuff, too, because I still think we have ground to make our are so similar experience.
Our highest downloaded episode is the one called filling the hole and And it was yeah, we were in players favorite.
1:21:40
We were intentional about the title to but that'd be got lucky one, right?
It got pretty dark, right?
Like, that's some legit conversation that we had and and they ended up being the largest one that largest downloads that we've had.
So what do you have to write that one down to, remember to go?
1:21:57
Look at it.
Yeah, I think, you know, we'd all love to put on this public Persona that, you know, were too tough, too.
Think about these things or concern ourselves with these things.
I mean, you know, you go to a trade show and everybody's pounding their chests like, you know, he man that down deep.
1:22:16
We're all people and we all have problems and we all want help working through them.
Yeah.
It's so funny.
Like the, the people that I think that I look at and kind of categorized in this like wisdom category or always the people that are just perfection islet.
1:22:37
As a parent.
It's so it's not like they're not telling you because they need the guilt or they you know, the Weeping or whatever the things are.
But they're just so matter-of-fact like this is and you know it and I know it and I'm not apologetic about it.
No, right, not aggressive, not - it's just this like, you know, you're hurting.
1:22:54
I'm hurting.
I know this weekend.
I might have a tough spot for a million different reasons so we use.
So let's let's stop acting.
Like when we're in a room full of people that they're not going to be suffering from the same challenges.
The same experience is the same negative.
Self-talk that Everybody else is but I only feel that way when I'm in a room with guys like you and then I'm Really Brave and then and then we leave the room and then it's like, I think you guys are similar to us in the way that Larry, and I have decided.
1:23:20
And it kind of goes against my nature, but we've decided to just try to be as vulnerable and transparent as we can.
Yeah, I mean, yeah, you know, you don't always feel comfortable doing it but it wasn't here, easier done by others.
1:23:37
Some.
Yeah, I know I'll be the first to raise my hand and say that's not hard for me.
Yeah, it's very easy for Larry.
It's very natural for him to be very vulnerable is easier in general for some of us.
But it depends on the topic because there's many topics that you come out and you're able to express yourself and I'm like, holy shit like now do I have to do?
1:23:56
I got nothing.
So you know?
Yeah.
All right so let's let's let's just finish this off with.
So what is your advice?
It's two people that are doing the things that we're doing, that are living these, you know, extreme entrepreneurial lives.
1:24:12
And and you know what, what should be there at least thought process to keep their ego and check to keep themselves in check to take care of themselves and their family members.
And I'm not talking financially, I'm talking the other stuff like what do we all do?
1:24:30
How do we make this work?
Yeah, boy it feels.
Yeah, I'm having a lot of Syndrome here, Landing This Plane?
Who am I right?
But I already of us.
Yeah.
Well I guess your experience and your oh yes, in my experience, you know.
1:24:47
I think there's a simple piece like the simplest piece is the fitness part like where we can make a choice and show up.
I said this in the last podcast I'm a huge fan of of CrossFit, not because I'm some like CrossFit, bro.
1:25:03
I don't compete and do all that craziness.
But because one, it's an outside, it's a community that exists outside of my business and it has that component of suffering with others.
That I just think is, it's been so immensely valuable to me.
1:25:22
I'm just always going to do it.
I hope I'm always able to do it.
I don't injure myself or I don't have some reason why I've stopped doing it because the combination of having people, outside of my business and my family that I'm seeing on a routine basis, and we're suffering together.
There, there's just something really special about that versus when I'd go work out at the local Athletic Club or something like that.
1:25:44
And where you end up spending 30 or time talking with people that, you know, and recognize in the community and all that stuff, right?
So I think in terms of Fitness that's the biggest pitch.
I can make it's been like, disproportionately valuable to me, is putting myself in that kind of Fitness environment.
1:26:02
And then I think the other thing too for me has just been I have to create the feedback Rich environment with the people around me as take me a long time to figure that out.
Like, if I really want to be more self-aware, I have to be the one every time that puts myself out there and offers myself like that vulnerability.
1:26:25
And what I found is often when I offer that vulnerability, people will reciprocate, that's probably one of the biggest lessons I've learned over the last five or ten years.
It's just if I'm willing to put myself out there, ask for feedback, share this.
This thing that I'm struggling with or I'm having a hard time with nine times out of ten people meet me there and so I think I think that self-awareness can begin was just a very vulnerable conversation of inviting somebody in to give you feedback on how you're doing in a particular area.
1:26:55
I think that's solid mind, kind of interesting.
I think people need to realize that if, if we're really kind of living out the maximum, Potential.
Or if we're, if we're really chasing the things that we have deemed, truly important to ourselves or truly and challenging for ourselves.
1:27:14
There's a reality that we're probably going to spend the majority of our existence on our Outer Limits.
And what I mean by Outer Limits is the outer limits of what we currently have, in terms of skill, set, competency, understanding knowledge, wisdom.
And that's a dangerous place to two.
1:27:31
It feels like a dangerous place to be, right?
Because it doesn't do anything to support confidence.
It's like it deal, it raises the head of the Imposter syndrome, it does a lot that doesn't give us a warm and fuzzy and I think Eric you said earlier, getting comfortable being uncomfortable.
1:27:48
And so for me, it's like for myself.
I have to remind myself this for for young leaders for emerging leaders.
Just reminding people that if you're doing your job, well, you should feel is if you're not fit for the role yet and that's okay.
1:28:04
Like, it's okay for you to look.
Look at the current position that you're in the title that you hold the responsibilities that you're being asked to carry.
And if there's some element of you that just feels like, I'm not currently equipped to do this.
That's okay.
So, now the next part of that then is start diving in one item at a time and create the competency create the wisdom, create the understanding that's required for the role that you've now been asked to feel, but don't stop at the part where you realize you're not equipped yet.
1:28:37
I think that's probably that piece that I would would share with people and I have to tell myself that all the time.
Well and then also to take that one step further.
Once you get to that place where you actually have that skill you need to make yourself uncomfortable again.
1:28:54
That's right, that's right.
And keep doing that forever.
Yeah whatever.
Yeah that's it Larry.
You guys are so into making them yourselves uncomfortable like you know, you kind of got to enjoy the ride a little bit.
Holy smokes.
It's true though, man.
That's why we need you in our lives is because you do have to have some freaking fun along the way to I'm with Chris.
1:29:15
I mean, let's work out during the day, lets, you know, work out together and sweat and enjoy the ride.
And then you guys could make up these great ideas and we'll put things in place to make it happen and it's all good and that's rewarding.
Hey, there's the roadmap man.
Yeah, just so you guys know, you know, all that stuff.
1:29:30
I talk.
Not with entrepreneurs being depressed and all that Larry doesn't have any of that.
Thank you guys.
He's not a tortured soul in any way, shape or form.
No, but I will work out.
Work past the next guy and that work.
That's true.
Larry will ya, you guys know how to grind the the grind and hustle is real when it when it comes to you, too for certain nice to see.
1:29:53
You know, when you see the feedback and the accomplishments is like, oh cool.
Heck, yeah.
Figure this out.
All right, all right.
Right.
Let's let's go into something.
Just a quick quick Park to finish off.
Because I know you were all kind of like minded.
1:30:09
I want to ask couple quick questions which would be my suggestion would be.
Make sure you're doing your homework.
Make sure you reading books, make sure you're listening to podcasts, always trying to get better, right?
So, what books you guys reading right now, or in the last 6 months, or yeah, like, what are books that you think could benefit other people?
1:30:31
Yeah.
Yeah, I've got a couple.
I know you always has good.
Snowstorm on it again.
Okay.
So one I'm just kind of getting into is called influences your superpower By Zoe chance, that one.
It's actually it's interesting.
She was on the knowledge project which is a podcast that I pretty much listen to every minute that they'll release but she was just talking about, kind of our misunderstanding of what it takes to actually influence people.
1:30:59
And I don't this does not Talking about like manipulation or anything like that.
But first influencing people for for the better and just basically it's kind of getting deeper into the psychology behind that what it actually requires to influence people and move people from here to there.
1:31:15
So anyways that's a great book I think for anybody that's leading in a company and organization a team or maybe you're preparing to take on a new leadership role.
I think that's a great just understanding how you interact with people and in the kind of posture.
1:31:31
And behaviors that you can deploy to do that.
Well as important and then we actually had damn pink on our show, not long ago.
And so, I'm trying to finish up the power of regret by him, and that's a really rad book.
1:31:47
And then the last one that I just finished was the everyday hero Manifesto by Robin Sharma.
Oh, I read, I read the monk with a Ferrari years ago or whatever the yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think that was his first book Because I think it is.
Yeah, he's an interesting take on life.
1:32:04
I mean, it's certainly, the, your quintessential self-growth, kind of, kind of stuff.
But man, there's, there's something healthy for me to hear that kind of stuff.
When I'm, you know, rock in the morning routine.
So anyways, that was a good.
That's a good one too.
1:32:19
Yeah.
So over.
So I have, I have like, my top-line, like, lifetime stuff.
One of the books that really landed with me, Was A New Earth by Eckhart Tolle.
You guys ready and of eckart Tolle stuff I have?
1:32:36
Yeah, it has that.
That book helped me through a very difficult time in my life and I actually listen to it on audiobook, which I very rarely do.
I prefer to read a book, but he, he read the book.
1:32:51
Yeah, audio.
And he has a very soothing voice totally.
And I listened to that book over and over and over.
Yes.
Me too, me too.
I first hit Sounds.
Here we go.
Losing half our audience.
Right?
I first discovered him by listening to Oprah's podcasts with my wife, they did.
1:33:11
Oh, you did?
Yeah.
Your wife did a chapter by chapter overview, where they would, like, basically debrief he and her.
Anyways, it's a hard book to recommend because it definitely the language is pretty.
1:33:27
Whoo, like it's got kind of a new agey sort of Of language to it.
But boy, if you can just if you can hang in there, like it really helped me understand my ego and how my ego is creating a lot of suffering in my life and affecting me professionally and everything else.
1:33:43
The way that I see myself, the way that I talk to myself, the way I interpret, my thoughts, the stories in my head, all of that kind of stuff.
Like that was just an incredibly life-changing book and I have reread it many times and I'm kind of in the middle of listening to it.
Again, the other the other book that I Recommend highly enough is leadership and self-deception by the are bigger Institute, has an incredibly nerdy sounding tone to it, and it's anything, but that it's a business, it's written in a style of a business Fable, and it's just incredibly powerful.
1:34:19
It's another one of those one of those types of books that just gives you a new lens for how you see things, but a different framework of how to think about our relationship.
Ation ships, my roles in work, how I treat people at work, how I affect them at me, just is a really interesting Business book.
1:34:40
Highly recommend it's short.
It's like maybe a hundred Pages I've given that look way more times on count as a gift as well.
I also, I Echo what Brandon said, the power of regret also I love it here by Clint Pulver, we had him on as a guest has fantastic in terms of really good.
1:34:58
Yeah, that was great from an Later manager perspective, that's a great, great read interesting and then we didn't so it's one of the other ones.
I'm gonna I'm gonna recommend this and you can cut this but Come As You Are by Emmeline agofsky is a sex and relationship book and I'm just I have nothing to do a restoration except met moat many of us.
1:35:26
Most of us are in a relationship and some are most of us are having some kind of sex.
Some frequency.
It was an incredibly powerful book for just my wife and I, we've been married, 20 years, and just for us to take a fresh, like kind of circle the wagons and take it and to be able to go through that.
1:35:44
Together, was incredibly powerful.
That's all I'll say about it.
I'm not going to get into that topic, but very learnable.
Yeah, becoming You Are by Emmeline agofsky.
It's got a really incredible cover photo and then it up right now.
Are we going to exchange until It's, it's really powerful podcast.
1:36:04
Can we do a quick round of podcasts?
Okay.
Yeah, that's what.
That's the next question.
That was the next one.
Okay, so I have I have a stable of podcast that are like my every day, like every single episode ones.
And I'm going to Echo a Brandon said the knowledge project I think is literally one of the best podcast that's out there period and it's very far-reaching and that the variety of guess he has on is really incredible.
1:36:28
Some of them are less interesting on.
The face of it to me but then when I get into it I'm just like oh my gosh this is exposing me to really different stuff.
It's brilliant.
And then one of the other ones that I really love is shoot.
1:36:46
Brandon jump in with one of yours, I had it impact Theory.
I think is rad, I think a lot of people have probably listen to that one.
That's Tim.
How do you pronounce his last name?
Blue, Tom bill, you do billion bill.
Yeah, he's rad Of course, the Tim Ferriss show sometimes with Tim Ferriss, I it's a little hit and miss for me.
1:37:06
So I would say a small percentage of the shows.
Do I really get excited to listen to but man you know what I like about him is how intelligent he is as a host.
Meaning that when he has a guest on, he is so connected to the subject matter that the way he can interview people is really interesting because he knows so much about what they're talking about and crap.
1:37:30
I mean half.
I'm what they're talking about.
It's just total Yemen.
I've never heard of a lot of the stuff.
Yeah.
For whatever.
Oh, I have a new one.
I have a new one.
I, you know, I'm I did not go to school and get an MBA, you know, and I don't regret that by any stretch but I'm very curious about business.
I just like learning about how businesses make money and like all the things and I discovered this new podcast just kind of like six weeks ago called business breakdowns.
1:37:55
Oh yeah and it's these two MBA type dudes but very very like related.
Very good.
Hitters and every single episode, they break down a different business model, like they did one.
I think on Spotify how to Spotify make money, like how it's their ad model, all that kind of stuff in and not just Tech though.
1:38:15
Yeah, it goes into Real Estate Management company.
I think they did one on Jones Lang, The Rock jll and and just big real estate portfolios.
All the different business categories, it is really fat.
They spent like an hour like breaking down interested, but in a language that you don't have to have An MBA or a PhD to understand, I that's been very fascinating.
1:38:36
And then another one that I really, I'm a Joe Rogan guy.
Yep.
Him I learn a lot.
I feel like I learned things about business.
I mean, because he has business Executives ride, he has the Elon musk's and the and smaller business people.
1:38:52
He has restaurant owners and I just find it.
So fascinating those long-form conversations, he's rely more kind of like Brandon is Tim.
Harris on that.
Like I'm going to pick 20% of Rogan's like, you know, the ones that like I don't want to hear the comedian or the MMA guy.
1:39:09
No, I'm with you.
I'm probably more than that in that crowd too.
But now he's a very good interviewer because he has a very high degree of Natural Curiosity.
Oh my gosh, yeah, he's kind of the king of it.
Well, brene, brown spot.
Cast dare to lead.
Oh, jeez.
Fantastic rad in general, any book by brene Brown?
1:39:27
You should recommend it to anybody willing to pick it up.
Yeah.
Oh, I do want to say this.
Okay.
So brene Brown, she has an audio book called The Power of vulnerability.
Every buddy should listen to it.
What it is.
1:39:42
What's interesting about it, it's very unique, it actually is a live Workshop, she did of that title and she turned it into an audible book.
And so it's her actually engaging with the audience.
And it's, I want to say it's probably close to 12 hours.
1:39:59
I mean, it's a, like a full-length book length to it.
My wife, and I listen to that on a road trip and it was incredible.
In fact, I would say, Better than any of the books I've read of hers.
And they're all good, but that live thing.
She is just in her element live.
1:40:15
Oh, God, is really underneath.
Yeah, and then my last one, Lex Friedman.
He's a new guy that I get introduced via a Joe Rogan.
He's, he's an MIT researcher young, guy like 30, he's into a ton of stuff.
He's like a nerdy version of Joe Rogan in some ways friends with Elon Musk.
1:40:34
Like he has incredible people on a show and he's an incredible.
Our viewer.
So anyway that's kind of my hit list and to finish off from each of you.
One piece of advice that you would give any service business owner, what would it be?
1:40:50
Oh, wow.
One piece of advice for service business owner.
Oh man, just remember you're in the people business.
Like at the end of the day, doesn't matter for profit, nonprofit doesn't matter what service lines you do.
1:41:08
We're, we're all in the people business, we just got to wake up to it.
Yeah, the thing I would say is and we've been spending a lot of time talking about this with regard to sales, but I think it really is true across every area of our business.
And our personal lives is Developing our curiosity, becoming more Curious asking more questions rather than telling, is just such a huge Force multiplier.
1:41:38
Just, it's so powerful.
And so, I think that that is probably one of the easiest ways for a business owner, a business leader to level up is by just intentionally cultivating curiosity.
In their life and in their work relationships.
1:41:55
Their, the scenarios that they work in be more Curious, man.
It pays, massive dividends, you know, agreed, it's awesome guys.
This is a great time.
Good conversation.
Wonderful, deep.
I think this is definitely the longest podcast we've ever done and I know that's a good thing.
1:42:15
Well, we were playing along, this is great.
So guys tell everybody how to find you what you're doing right now, we want to make sure that you People can reach out and get all of you guys for all the cool things you doing.
Well, I just mentioned the sales, one of the huge things is we're getting ready to launch a commercial sales.
1:42:32
Master course, we just did a live version of it on the East Coast for a bunch of different business, owners and sales leaders, and we are really excited.
We feel like there's a real unmet need like everybody's desperate.
Try to figure out commercial sales and it's something Brandon.
1:42:48
I get really excited about so that's our big launch that's coming.
People can follow us on LinkedIn.
And they'll know when that, Happens.
Get those early bird discounts.
That's the kind of Advance our goals sort of the big Hall.
Yeah, and the sales circles.
Yeah.
So we've got a mastermind group that's launching in May and it's really going to be kind of this ongoing supportive peer environment for our all our sales leaders out there.
1:43:11
Those of us kind of trying to forge a new way of creating new business for our for our teams.
And for our companies, I think this is going to be a great place for people to learn new skill, sets advance of school, those skill sets, Then find a community of like-minded people that will keep that kind of Engagement learning and that growth trajectory fueled up.
1:43:31
So I think it'll be super positive.
All that stuff.
You can check it out by just going to our website.
So floodlight grp.com and you can learn all sorts of stuff and and Chris and I are super approachable.
So you'll easily be able to fill out any kind of form whatsoever and it actually is going to come to me and him.
1:43:51
And so when when you get a response it's Actually us.
It's not some team of 10 people somewhere, so just reach out and connect with us.
We like making new friends, Perfect.
All right gentlemen, thank you for coming on the show.
We'll have to do it again.
All right, everybody.
1:44:07
He thinks for joining us for another episode of head heart and boots.
And if you're joined the show, beloved this episode, please, hit follow only known as subscribe.
Write us a review or share this episode with your friends.
Share it on LinkedIn, share it, via text, whatever it all helps.
1:44:24
Thanks for listening.