0:07
Welcome Back To The Head heart and Boots podcast.
I'm Chris and I'm Brandon.
Join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses we leave this industry.
Christopher, how are you sir?
0:23
Good people.
Miss that little gem that I know are expect our little exchange a little Preamble briefly ouch exchange, dude, I'm having some mustache frustrations.
It's like I'm getting a dreadlock effect where some of the pieces stick together and the others don't want.
0:38
I don't think you properly deploying your pocket comb.
I think the pocket comes the answer to that now, you know what?
I'd like to argue with you, but I think you're speaking truth, I have three of them.
So, just in case I leave one at home, it's like, is it like the switch box style, where he can just buy a pull that thing out?
0:53
No.
But I have looked at those hide.
I wouldn't mind one of those.
Probably take your game to a whole new level.
No, dude, I want to talk about something today.
That is like, I think it's valets but the Reality of it is is our audiences.
Some of them have these little critters and some of them don't Critters.
1:09
Are we what are we 1?
Zi 1 later?
I want to talk about raising rabbits no, I want to talk about kids.
I want to talk about being a parent or oh this is a sensitive subject.
That is that you know I know and again I know this some of our audience, that's not the place that they're at.
But I think the interesting thing about this is, and, of course, we're going to try to do our job, right?
1:28
Representing our our client base.
In this conversation is there is direct ties to us employer.
Hours and coaches Consultants right?
Teachers leaders there is a connection for sure.
I don't see, really any difference to be honest between leadership and a business context and parenting.
1:44
Actually, there's so many pair like parallels is the minimum right there are certainly like we're bringing the same human.
Yeah.
Into the equation and Rose settings, right?
Yeah, yeah.
I've just, you know, it's interesting because you and I are fairly transparent with kind of our Journeys as we record these shows and you often will reference experiences.
2:04
Zo, we do with our partners, our wives, you do with your kids, and some of the lessons that you're learning and sometimes real hard ways, right?
And I'm in a similar place with my kids, where we're onto a different part of the journey than you've been experiencing and in and of itself, there's some new challenges but there's also some really fun things that are happening.
2:24
And I think where I've been these last few weeks is in this place of really trying to understand what this new version of my relationship with my adult.
Kids are mind 2123.
Three.
And what's interesting about it is that it feels like for the first time in a long time, I really can be in alignment with some of the perspectives and focuses that we've tried to deploy as employers that we've tried to teach people in terms of growing their business, and their relationship with their people.
2:50
And it's like, for the first time and it's really paralleling for me, like, in a lot of ways, there's this new Dynamic with my kids, when it's closer to an employee employer relationship from the perspective of the opportunity to create a coaching culture too.
Create this relationship where I'm guiding, but if I do it too direct.
3:07
If I'm just absolutely telling and mandating.
Of course, that's a massive turnoff for somebody that's 21, 23 years old and younger or 17 2013, 11, so more born.
So anyways, I've been wrestling with that.
And then another piece and just full transparency you and I and we're not ready to talk about it, a whole bunch yet, but even I've really been going to work earning money, learning a different level of money management.
3:31
And as I'm increasing, Seeing my financial literacy Way Beyond managing, business Way, Beyond managing in the pnl and we almost look at it and say like the phase 3, like after I've created cash what am I doing with it?
As I'm doing so much more learning on that and really getting mentored by some people that have clearly been in the trenches for a long time.
3:52
I'm like, man, what an opportunity I've had that in off speaks to the New York is seek it into my kid.
Gosh!
I like because, you know, I've had a couple really interesting conversations is were, you know, Flood light grows.
It's like how do we best Steward that growth?
Yeah because I think you know what we should hold on to this.
4:09
Yeah we have to thank our sponsors that are available in this conversation.
The era that is for a blitz.
Let's do that.
A so yes special.
Thanks go to our sponsors that help Empower and put gas in the tank for head heart and Boots threat.
And you know, we have a unique relationship with our podcast sponsors because really one we really believe in them this is that's not to say that other podcasts have sponsors don't believe in the product.
4:34
But I think we definitely put a double emphasis on that.
The we feel like especially the consulting company which is kind of our day job so to speak.
Yeah.
Like our clients look to us for advice and we want to make sure we're introducing them to quality products and service.
It's not a transaction.
It's not relationship.
4:49
That's mutually beneficial.
Yeah and I don't mean that tongue-in-cheek.
Yeah, totally.
So one of the sponsors that underwrites this podcast is lift defied and we were actually just talking with another potential sponsor today I just how awesome of a The ship has been lifted five because it really is a win-win for us.
5:07
When you find a great service vendor or supplier and you refer it to somebody that you care about somebody that you have a relationship with and they have an awesome experience.
Will part of the equation?
Is, you look awesome for introducing him to that product or service?
And that's been consistently.
5:24
Our experience with live to Phi is that when we introduce one of our clients or an industry friend, or even a prospect, it comes up in some of our sales conversations with potential clients.
Clients even consistently.
They come back 30 days later and like, oh my gosh, this has been really great.
5:39
It was super easy.
It was simple for us to turn that on.
So we look good.
They benefit their business benefits and so forth.
So it's just been one of those really easy relationships.
Pants are really grateful to Zach and his team.
Well, what is left?
If I mean if you've been listening to our show you definitely heard us.
5:56
Talk about him.
Yeah.
But Google reviews.
It's like this day and age.
It doesn't matter if you're a Restoration company.
Window washer a restaurant, really all businesses in terms of generating organic leads from Google the SEO component, all that stuff Google reviews and the routine collection of Google reviews.
6:19
Not just, you know back in the day I think back when I was a State Farm agent, there was a heavy emphasis on Yelp reviews, Google reviews, all that stuff is like, all that was kind of coming to Bear 12 15 years ago and we were doing all kinds of clever, things like giveaway.
Ways little incentives like, hey, if you leave us, gu review will give you a $5 Starbucks card, you know, that kind of stuff.
6:39
But we knew that you have really before Google started penalizing, that kind of stuff in their algorithm.
Yeah, but we all wanted it.
We were doing all these clever things and there continues to be some of those kind of black hat.
Clever approaches, but more and more Google's catching on.
Yeah.
6:54
And they're like, look, just because somebody has this huge rush of like 50 reviews, it comes in does not mean they're real and does not mean they're reflecting actual.
Experience in.
So now Zack was educating us on and go back, you can hear the interview a sack on a previous episode.
7:11
I don't know what number that was.
They will put in the show notes, but he was like, no, no, that's why.
Now, the Google algorithm is prioritizing recency like its Mission critical.
That we have a system in place where every single week every single month we're generating Google reviews from the jobs were doing.
7:28
Yeah, and what that means is is that for you to receive maximum benefit from your Google reviews, As if you're a company that's doing 500 or 1,000 jobs a year, like many of you are, there are listening to this.
You should be generating hundreds of Google reviews throughout the year.
7:44
Yeah.
And so if you're one of these people is listening you're like we we do that kind of business and we have like a hundred nine reviews from the last six years you are probably not receiving a fraction of the benefit in terms of organic search results in leads from Google.
And think about how much money you're spending on PPC.
8:01
What if you were generating more calls, just Cause of your organic search results in Google reviews.
Yeah.
Like, what is that worth?
And anyway, so, Brandon, I've worked with other platforms when we, when operating the field, there's a number of other ones lift, if I is less expensive on a monthly basis than those and their conversion.
8:19
The number of reviews they're getting for every client job that you close is significantly higher than the industry standard, 20 to 25%.
Yeah, so if you do 1,000 jobs, what lift if I is saying is you're very likely going to collect. 100 to 250 reviews a year.
8:36
Yeah, Douglas.
So do the math, whatever your number is if you do a hundred jobs a year, okay?
You do 2,000 jobs a year lift.
If I could be a represent of major lift your business and generate more inbound calls it certainly done it for us even at a very small level with the consulting company so just go do it.
8:53
Lift the five.com for / floodlight we have had zero clients come back and say hey that was a crappy introduction.
Yeah, we wish we'd never talk to lift if I literally yeah.
So there you go and bang.
See in our magazine Michelle over at CNR, just run and Gun and creating so much value and opportunity for us, man.
9:10
They just keep getting pumping help more and more content between the podcast between the special series that she's doing with leading experts in the industry.
She brings in the big names point is, is what they're doing is value at it.
And it's like it's free to you.
Literally like it's an opportunity to get to access to.
9:29
This to basically be a partner with a friend of the industry and get a lot of great information.
To help you help guide your team.
Helped expose your team to things, Concepts ideas, and maybe, tools and resources, you don't know or on the horizon.
So seeing our magazine guys become a subscriber, it's real simple.
9:45
It's a no-brainer.
Make it happen.
You and your team benefit from it.
So yeah.
In different advertising standpoint, we have had a number and I think we're like many of you, what is the value of a single inbound lead?
Like, think about that for you.
We've got maybe you're a supplier in the industry, maybe you're a staffing agency.
10:03
C or something like that.
And you're marketing to restoration companies like since we started advertising with see in our we can document, how many cuz we asked people when they submit a form on our website or whatever.
How'd you hear about us kind of deal and multiple times.
We've had see in our magazine pop up there and we know the value of that to us and other ship.
10:23
And it's far, outweigh the cost of what we've spent in terms of advertising.
Our listenership is grown on head, hardboots all the things.
So whether you're an Advertiser or you're an industry, professional is trying to Stay up on the latest stuff.
Yeah, go to see our check it out parenting.
10:38
I honestly I'm not 100% where to start with launch this pad but I think I got a van, you ready?
I'll follow you.
Okay, so big picture, guys.
Maybe this is the framework to start this conversation, a big picture.
I feel like I went through a series of phases with my kids in terms of my relationship now.
And again, I want to be cognizant of the fact is parenting is a Sentimental, and highly, emotionally charged conversation and relationship.
11:00
So I want to be cognizant of the fact that many of us Have a wildly varying degree of relationships with our kids based on so many variables.
And so, please do not hear anything that we're going to talk about is an overgeneralization or this is fact.
This is what well, I think to I've thought a lot about this because of course, there's potential for our children to hear these podcasts and stuff like that, and I'm like, sure, kind of my commitment is I'm sharing from my perspective.
11:25
Yeah, anything that comes up, right?
And so kids, if you're listening to this, this is a one-sided conversation.
We understand that it might These dad's perspective and I've been around long enough to realize that often my perspective is flawed especially in the moment, you know.
It's not necessarily fact.
11:42
Yeah.
So I'm gonna just kind of describe some phases and again I think there's real easy ways for us to connect this conversation to our relationship with our employees if you're not a parent, or if that's just not the space that you're currently focused on.
So I think about this from this perspective.
So when my kids were younger right, there is some commanding control.
12:00
That's required, not some, there's a lot.
Yeah.
Okay.
They don't have the experience.
Variants.
They don't have the life exposure as much as they may have some mental knowledge that they've learned via social channels that they've learned via education exposure to their friendship circles.
They certainly are developing a worldview, but the reality of it is right wrong or indifferent, the reality of his.
12:22
They just haven't had a ton of exposure to the world, in all the different variables that affect it.
And so there's this reality that we're guiding our kids, right?
We're putting up those bowling lanes, those guards to make.
Sure.
They stay on some kind of path.
That's healthier versus not right.
12:38
Lots of commanding control when they're younger and then you I feel like you go through the second phase where the relationship between you and your kids.
You're learning how to let go and they're learning how to push back, right?
And you have been fairly open and honoring but you've been fairly open about some of this transition that you've been in with your kids as they age into their teens, right?
12:58
My are beyond that now.
But I went through this phase personally, I went through a phase with my kids wear it Like we're just doing this dance of I'm trying to balance, whether or not in that moment.
This is a lesson.
I have to provide or if it's a lesson I should just leave to time.
13:15
Okay.
And this is hard, it's just it's a difficult thing.
And then I think what a lot of kids, and again, right the parallels.
Our employees don't always understand that we're humans to.
And we're trying to make a similar decision pattern as employees or as employers, where we're like, is this a moment that I have to be the one that drives home?
13:33
This Lesson or can I give my people some Grace to learn this lesson on their own?
Right via failing right via whatever can time be the teacher on this particular topic, right?
Dude, I have a lot of emerging thoughts in this area because you know so my kids 1715. 11 almost 12.
13:54
They're all about three years apart.
Yeah my 17s.
All going to be 18 in June next month.
Oh gosh.
Wild wise man.
Yeah so here's the thing I've noticed and so your kids are Out five years ahead of mine.
Is that right?
Yeah, yeah.
So just rough rope and boy, does it feel like some things have changed even in the last five years?
14:12
And I think this is a current struggle.
I grew up, I was thinking about my upbringing, but I was talking with a friend just about some of the pushback that I've gotten from my older child.
When it comes to boundaries and expectations and rules, and all that kind of stuff.
14:29
And I was thinking about this because I said, well, I would have never Were pushed back in that way with my parents and my parents were not super overbearing or super strict.
And how we I think most of us would think about I'm 43 by the way.
So it gives a little context.
Simon.
14:45
I grew up in the 80s as a kid.
The internet wasn't a thing.
Yeah.
And certainly I know the internet and all of the follow on technology and social media and stuff that there are certainly a lot of negative things that we now are trying to deal with and manage, but I think one thing, the internet and social media is done is it's introduced a whole Variety of perspectives and sort of Optics on how other people live and how the world works.
15:10
It's opened our kids of, there's just a much more global view that.
I think our kids just inherently grow up around of seen other ways of doing life, how their friends are living in different situations.
They're seeing the consequences of different types of Lifestyle.
There's just nothing.
15:26
They just have a much more global view of things.
It's not all great.
Let's be honest, right?
I mean, some of the obvious things.
That I think we see our kids being exposed to things like pornography and there's some stuff like early exposure to things this I think most of us would agree, not healthy.
So it's both and it's all the things.
15:43
But I think it's causing our kids to mature in some ways faster than we'd like.
But then also there's some positive sides to that.
There's a much broader perspective.
I think our kids are growing up with that we didn't have and I think so there was some guardrails I think that our parents had to put it like they had to speak some of that perspective sort of Give us the proper perspectives, growing up, that I think things are legitimately changing.
16:08
Because what I'm seeing is I don't know that my kids need as much from me in terms of the rules and protection that my parents needed to provide me when I was growing up.
I think that like my ego feels like I want them to want advice from me.
16:28
Like I'm kind of expecting that they're looking to me for advice and Direction and guidance and Guard rails and stuff like that.
And what I'm seeing in all my kids is that there's much more Independence.
It's like, I'm not the only one that can go to for answers.
Now, it's like there's answers everywhere and I'm right in the middle of processing all this, but that sort of command and control perspective, that I think most of us grew up with of, hey curfews.
16:52
You got to be home at, you're not going to do this.
You are going to do that.
All a lot of that, I think might be less necessary than it used to be.
When I was a kid growing up in the 80s.
Interesting that, you know what I mean?
Go there because I think in this is funny because you and I are still experimenting a bit with our shows in terms of what we're willing to try to do live and not and this might be one of those scenarios where you and I are so different in our perspective that it could create some very interesting dialogue.
17:19
So, here's my knee-jerk response, and I'm not saying yours is right or wrong, it is, but my knee-jerk response is my kids.
Yes, you're right.
Like, the current Generations have got exposure.
But what I think, what they don't realize, Is that just because they see it doesn't mean it's in their best interest.
17:38
Okay?
So where I was going with this though, thank you.
I was actually a good cue because because yes I agree with you.
I think what's happening now is that I grew up in a again it's this Collective I'm not talking about my parents per se Sharia but I think just collectively there was like a default behavior of telling your kids what to do, how to behave in a lot of cases.
17:59
There was an in congruence between how they saw mom and dad.
Seeing in some of the choices and some of the behaviors that Mom and Dad had behind the scenes and what Mom and Dad were demanding of the kids, because it felt like the right thing to do.
I got to protect them, I got to make sure they don't do this, make sure they don't do that.
18:15
You know, the classic example is just that it can that command and control environment, right?
And I think now with our kids, having access to any information, any answers, they want.
Now there's a much heavier burden on parents to actually model, hmm.
That's very solid what they want their kids to be because kids going to see any kind of incongruence to be like screw you.
18:37
I would I listen to you, you know what I mean?
Like there's a much heavier burden on us now to model.
Yeah, Healthy Living responsible choices because they can clearly they can spot in congruence immediately because they have other options.
18:53
They're seeing they have other models.
They can choose.
Yeah.
And those models are often showing fake results.
Yeah.
Right.
So a lot of these models that you're talking about in course I'm not.
I knew about like, walkway models models of parenting models of living.
They're seeing the social value of it.
19:10
They're seeing what somebody posted intentionally.
And so they see someone acting X that may look different than the way you do, and they're like, but that's a winning one because I see what yours is bearing.
And I don't like what it's bearing.
But when I watch this person or watch this model being lived out on social media, it looks like they're winning.
19:27
Yeah, so like when I say the guard rails and all that stuff isn't as necessary, I think it's our kids are learning Through observation.
Yeah.
More than ever because they have a more global view.
They're looking at their friends, I'm no matter how much restriction in protection.
19:43
You try to put in place, inevitably your kids are going to be exposed to a, a world of information perspectives angles.
They're seeing how their friends, their friends parents are behaving on faced by there's just the Optics.
20:00
Our kids have into the world and how it works.
Now is one 100% different than when I was in the 80s.
Yeah, my world was what my parents allowed me to see.
Censure based on the community.
I was raised in the school.
I went to the types of like church, the friends that my parents had over to our house, all that stuff he was very like that was all I knew.
20:21
Yeah.
And now my kids are exposed to a whole variety of Worlds, you know, they're seeing things and experiencing things and potentially even interacting with things around the world in Some respects.
Sure, within sort of the religious context that we've raised them in and experiencing other people from other religious contexts in different World, Views, and Lifestyles and all that kind of stuff.
20:45
And and so I feel like I guess the shift that I'm talking about and I'm totally mincing words because I'm kind of figuring this out.
As I say stuff is I just feel the burden of it.
Doesn't matter what you say anymore to your kids.
Yeah.
Like they're ultimately going to respond to the lived experience with you and I think There's a fundamental I think maybe that was always true in some ways but the difference is that Saul they were exposed to back then and now it's like they can kind of pick and choose what do I think makes the most sense in this world?
21:15
And I think it's up to us to show them.
Yeah.
Like so if I'm trying to help them understand what it is to take care of themselves, I think the only bona fide way for me to approach that is for me to live it to model it because me saying something, there's a thousand other people saying things to them.
21:32
Yeah.
And that's Not been that way.
Yeah, even as recently as ten years ago, yeah, and it's funny, I think the parallel here in this phase that we're talking about, this is the dance right this Phase 2 is where you're beginning to learn.
How is it, what do I do to continue to provide value to my kids or value to my employees?
21:51
Again, these are so they parallel each other.
So, well, is your in this dance of what part do I hold with a loose grip?
What part do I not what part is 100% based on how I act versus what I tell them?
I think there is one piece that remains true here that then eventually carries over into this third phase, which I want to eventually make our way into and that is the Y element.
22:12
Like there's one thing that I think changes in this second phase, that's very critical regardless.
Right of all these different variables that will come over time.
All these different things that will shift over the next multiple decades, in terms of access to information and worldviews and employee-employer relationship, protocols.
22:28
All those things is the importance of the ylm at so when my kids were young, Just like when you have an employee, that's maybe very new in the roster.
There's just this element of like we have to teach them the expectation but then you move into a new dance in phase two where it's more about a I need to mirror just like you said, hundred percent accurate, you got a mirror, what you're looking for Mirror, what you expect, but then it's teaching them the, why?
22:51
Because they're about to begin.
If they're not doing it already, making 90% of these decisions on their own accord, even if they're presenting to you, that they're doing what you want.
The reality of it is, is that A whole because I said, so because it's important for your safety, for your health.
23:09
Like those generic non why driven responses don't fit the bill anymore, they don't fuel them in their own decision making.
And so one of the things that we did at times very well and other Skypes did horrible, we tried to be aggressive about when I said, hey, I don't believe this is an option for you or were not going to allow this thing, or here's the, why it's not Because I said so I want you to understand that like I'm a couple corners out on the journey farther than you and these are things that we've seen and experienced, right?
23:42
This is the Y.
Now, the reality of it is and this is where we can't own our kids as circus or our employees circus.
You can't mandate how they receive that information, right?
And there's going to be a lot of things that challenge that they were talking about.
This hill is so hard, right?
You can't.
23:58
You know what somebody we were talking?
Is this my circus is this, my monkeys and there's this reality.
Our kids.
But that Y part like you're talking about marrying it with your behavior and then providing the Y and it's so funny.
It's like you say that out loud.
What's great leadership and mentorship as an employer as a key leader?
24:13
Yeah.
Why and mirroring mirroring meeting and exceeding those expectations, right?
So okay, so I think we can Circle back to these phases and experiences because there's so many things to refer to, but okay, phase 3, I think I'm square into phase 3.
You are squaring Phase 2.
24:29
I think right now with your family Dynamic, I'm sure people are listening can sort of here.
Hear how tentative and unconfident.
I feel.
Okay that's we're talking.
I feel very unconfident.
Yeah and this subject area right now I'm really my cage has been rattled.
24:44
Yeah as I've been going through these teenage years because I feel like there's a real shake-up in my mentality and I think a lot of that started several years ago but it's like each phase.
I go through a parenting is my children are really establishing themselves.
Their own independence and stuff are really wrestling with how I was raised.
25:03
Interest by generation was kind of raised my arm wrestling with some of the religious context and just the role that that played in my upbringing and kind of my worldview and all that kind of stuff and one path and I think some of us choose that is to just stay in that pocket and just kind of raise our kids.
25:19
The way our parents raised us because we turned out.
Alright this worked okay yeah and then some of us wrestle with it and like you know that thing maybe wasn't as productive or not.
So happy with the impact that had on my trajectory.
I'd like to do something different with my kids and it's it's very Uncertain because it's one of those things and there's some sure there's analogs in business to this to wear the thing.
25:39
The choice you're making today, you may not find out if it was the Rector of all four weeks.
Yeah.
Months.
How are you?
Take the yellow kids.
It's like I may not know if I'm taking the right path with them until they're 25 and I start to see some fruit from these types of conversations or choices we've made out of percent and so I'll admit like it's just a little shaky ground for me in death.
26:00
Well, and I think same street you say that maybe there are parallels with the Clear employee will absolute.
There is right now because the reality of it is, is that the dynamic in that relationship has shifted greatly for a lot of the same reasons, right?
So the same reasons that we have this changing dynamic in our household, those kids are becoming employees, and those employees are bringing that same relational experience to our, our work, right to our office, to our to our Workforce.
26:26
And so there is this element of us having to shift into the second phase with the, with our employees because their expectations Options are different, their worldview is wider.
They're being exposed to things even though they have it like visually, right?
26:41
They are socially.
They're being exposed to it.
But they may not necessarily have the real life experience to marry up against it.
And so we're having to modify the way that we lead and guide our people because the expectation is different.
The game is changing not only in our homes, but then where do those people go, right?
26:57
They go into our businesses, our teams.
They, they show up with that same baggage and I think the reality of it is Hesitation or that uneasiness that you feel we all are right.
Like I think we're feeling that in a dynamic Global Way and we're all trying to figure out what do we do about this, right?
27:14
And recruiting companies are starting to teach some different changes.
We're starting to see big swings and HR focus and in terms of how we're equipping leaders to educate themselves and their their employees, like it is shaky, right?
We don't have a firm grip.
27:29
We have camps that feel like they've got the concept nailed.
The reality of it is, I don't know if any of us have been practicing long enough in any category or model that we do know for certain now we can have confidence so just like with our kids because it's not all Shaky Ground And there's no firm foundation anywhere.
27:47
I think we can remind ourselves about some basic human elements, right?
And how we deploy, this gets tough respect, right?
Not making assumptions in terms of their ability to listen to what we have to say.
And what we're trying to communicate, not dumbing down the message because Don't think they're smart enough to comprehend the complexities of your ingenious perspective.
28:10
All right, head heart and Boots.
Listeners want to stop here, just a moment.
And thank our underwriting sponsor floodlight Consulting Group as all of, you know.
Right.
You know, Brandon and I, this is our passion project had hardboots his but it's also a way of more and more that are Consulting clients find us and in effect, they interview US.
28:29
Write those even listen to show for a while.
You get to know who we are, right?
What we're about.
So if head heart boots is valuable to you.
One of the best things you can do is share it with your friends and it's been incredible to watch just the audience grow and we still get text messages from many of you about shows that you really like and impacted you.
28:48
So that's number one and please keep doing that.
Many of you have been huge, Advocates of the show.
We also just want to remind you to.
If you're a Restoration company owner, and you're interested in a partner in your growth, you want some help building out systems, developing your leadership teams.
29:03
Helping set up the infrastructure for you to scale and grow into the company that you're trying to build.
That's what we do.
That's what we do is we come alongside Restoration company leaders, we help equip them and we help support them in that growth trajectory.
So, if you're looking for that, go to floodlight gr p.com, potentially, we could be a great match for each other.
29:23
Another way that we really do serve our client base and our sphere of influence is through our Premier Partners, we work really hard to bet those folks that we believe bring a level of value to To the industry that it can really be leveraged in a way to have a sincere positive impact on your business.
29:38
We take that very seriously, the folks that we create those kind of ongoing Partnerships.
That's not a check, the box kind of scenario.
It's, it's we really see strategic alignment in the value that they bring.
We see value in the way that their leadership teams and their partners are developed.
And we've done very sincere work of ensuring that these folks that we introduce our clients and our sphere to can actually create vetted value.
30:01
So go check out floodlight grp.com.
Forward slash Premier / partners and see if there's some folks on there that you can connect with and begin developing some other resources to support your growth and your business.
Can we talk about that respect word?
30:16
Yeah.
Seriously because I have a frame for that like what was respect when I was growing up.
Oh sure respect was within a certain range if an elder like an adult right approaches?
You and tells you to do something.
You better fucking do it.
Yeah, it was kind of.
30:32
That was the General theme, right?
Like if I was at church or I was at school or whatever, it's like there is no room for negotiation like that was part of respect.
Was you have an elder that tells you to do something or or you address them in a specific way.
You don't use certain words or you like there's a very large meaning to respect when it comes to a younger person respecting, an older person, merely because of their time in grade.
30:56
Let's say.
Yeah.
And I think that applied also in professional settings.
Now, I'm not saying that's gone.
Yeah.
But I think I'm starting to See that there's a fair bit of ego at Drive behind that definition of respect.
Like as a parent.
I'm starting to see the limitation of me demanding, that kind of respect for my kid in terms of.
31:15
Hey, if I say it like, it's part of that command and control culture.
Yeah, I'm starting to see the limits of that in terms of with regard to my relationship with my children.
Yeah.
Right.
My demand or respect to that degree of you should listen because I'm your dad.
31:31
Yeah, I'm starting to see the flaws in.
That sure, you know, just in terms of the limits that puts on the relationship, the US versus them Dynamic that can kind of start to form.
Where I'm maybe not valuing them as much in the relationship.
I'm placing some demands on them that they can't place on me.
31:48
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Sure, like my kid feels strongly about something.
I think in that old context, that most of us grew up in that definition of respect, it doesn't go both ways, you know, but I'm starting to see the flaw in that.
And I think in business we're seeing this to where it's like, When it comes to being an employer, whatever there is that kind of command and control voice of what you're going to do it because I'm paying you to do it.
32:13
Yeah.
You don't like that.
Go somewhere else.
You know, that kind of yeah that kind of mentality.
And is it real well?
Yeah, it's totally real.
You don't like something.
Your employee says, are they disagree with you?
Yeah, you kick him on down the road because you can, but I think we're starting to see the flaw in that of.
Well, sure.
32:28
You have every right to do that.
It's a parent.
Maybe there is some inherent, right?
It's like, hey, you're providing for Or them.
Your like, this is the role of the parent.
They should just do what you say?
Well, okay, yeah, maybe technically, you have the right until they're 18, but does it produce the outcome?
I think the most of us want, in terms of the relationship that I think most of us want to have to our children, as they grow older, and the kind of relationship we want to have with them as adults.
32:52
So in does it create the open line of communication where we have the influence in their life that I think probably most of us want and I'm starting to see.
No maybe not and what does it look?
Like for me to honor my children or extend that same kind of respect to them.
33:09
Yeah but I was kind of taught and again my parent again, my parents sometimes they listen to the podcast from like I'd ever experienced my parents as being that to the nth degree.
But I think it was just part of the culture that I grew up in when it came to respecting your parents and honoring Authority.
Yeah, I think there's an ego component to that of you should just cuz it kind of is in line with that Jessica's because I said yeah those sort of response, know No, I definitely.
33:34
Yes.
So I'm trying to figure that out everything.
That's far different though.
That like, you know, you're right there is a lot of that and it is carrying over.
And that's the part that's broken and like with any.
Oh yeah.
Right.
And I think one of the things again, I'm out in front of you, 56 years, I have smart kids, their Challengers.
33:52
Oh yeah.
My oldest Challenger.
I mean, he hates, he's it's not take your word for it, okay.
And one of the things.
So, just like, if this is such dangerous territory, when we're talking about parenting, guys, This is our perspective, our experience, we're not teaching anything right now, we're sharing.
34:07
Okay, sure.
All right, so when I think about as an employer, is it realistic?
This is the battle I meant.
Okay, I'm gonna get my words put together here.
This is the battle.
I am in as a combination of an experienced employer and a parent with adult kids is this wrestling match of?
34:23
Yes, there is this Balancing Act of it's not command & Conquer.
Commanding control.
Specially when you hit that teenager to young adult age and however /.
We can't allow our people and our kids.
Again, my opinion, to live an existence where there are no consequences for their actions, even though they just have a differing in quotes opinion.
34:47
So in this is the hard dance is.
There are times where, with my employees, as an example, there is an expectation and there's a lot of worldview and experience, that is supporting the definition of that expectation.
Sure.
It's not just my opinion, it's not.
35:03
Whimsical.
It's not because this is the road that I hoed any of those things.
It's because there's real life, technical data, and facts that support that this has to be done this way period.
And so, the challenge is when our kids, our employees, because they're free to make their own decisions.
35:22
Choose a path that in the moment.
Feels very good for them.
It feels good because from their limited and that is a major important piece.
They're Limited.
Real-world exposure and experience has not equipped them with the tools to make that level of decision.
35:40
And so, in the moment, just like I can as an adult, I can get sucked up and how it feels right now.
But I'm not thinking about how it's going to be experienced later.
They're going to make short-sighted decisions and my people are going to do the same thing.
And so the dance there is and just I had to go through this with my kids.
35:58
Is it certain times I had to say, this is a non-negotiable and I Stand that if you're not on board with it, you may choose to move out.
You may choose to do something different.
But I just need you to understand that.
I have to put a boundary here.
It's not going to feel good.
36:14
I don't like it.
I don't like it.
I had rough experiences with my kids at times because I did this.
Well and I had rough experiences when I did it shitty, but it's still rough and it was this element.
Just like, with my employees, there are times where I have to let someone go.
So I have to tell them.
36:29
This is a non-negotiable in with my kids, I had to establish I wish that same thing and it was like this is what's hard as employers and parents you can make decisions based on getting back or because you're angry and then you can make decisions because you know, it's the right thing to do and those are not the same perspectives and I often made decisions and took action with my kids because I was angry and I was getting back at them versus this is a boundary.
36:58
I have to teach you to understand because it's going to be very important for you later and what I've found.
Lb is sometimes it's really hard to differentiate.
What?
You're not getting all side me.
Yeah.
Am I truly doing this or making this judgment or setting this boundary because it's what's right for them.
37:15
In terms of their safety, long-term consequences real-life consequences to the family or other siblings or whatever other people.
Yeah.
Am I really making this boundary or drawing this line because of that or because there is this very real part like there's this very real Pride.
37:33
Inigo and inside me that I want them to yeah, obey me.
Yeah, no, you can respect me for my role as Dad and you're all the things I've done for that.
And all the ways that I spend time effort, and like, Dad egoic place of do, you know what I've done for you?
37:49
You know, shuts like that plate.
Like that's really hard to differentiate, so desires, and then you add in a lot of our religious upbringing.
So that's a whole nother set of messages and values and principles and things that come The bear on that to that we're kind of juggling and in the moment.
38:08
Sometimes, it's very hard for me to tell where my ego is yeah, and where there's rational thought and logic, and that's the dance.
That is the hard thing that is that dance in that time period, during that second phase.
It's so difficult.
38:24
It's kind of funny when we started the show her, like, I wonder if there's good parallels there so obvious.
Oh, right?
That's like it's same with our employees and maybe the phases look a little bit.
Only because the phase is their time and grade and maturity and their role but the same concept, right?
It's the same idea that there's going to be times.
38:39
I can allow them to disagree with me.
And then there's times where I just I just can't for the health of the team, the health of the business, the health of our home, right?
And I think that's an interesting thing that is because not everyone that listens to, this show is going to be a parent.
And not everyone that listens to our show is the employer, right?
38:55
A lot of marked.
And so I think, let's think about this from the opposite side and I think this is as parents why we get so frustrated, our kids are Juggling to see the impact of their actions outside of themselves and that's the wrestling match.
I think what happens in Youth.
39:11
And really, as adults we have a tough time growing out of this sometimes, I mean I know people that are older than me and they're fucked up.
Still like they have no idea their impact on the people around him there.
So narcissistic and self-consumed, they haven't matured socially in this way that awareness and I think what a lot of people mistake is it's not just about developing self-awareness, it's awareness about the fact that you have a real impact on the people around you, right wrong or indifferent, agree or disagree, you have an impact on them.
39:39
And so, you're not in a silo, you're not isolated, you don't get to just choose whatever the fuck you want because people are in relationship, direct and indirect, right?
It was my point with it.
Little tirade is often our employees and our kids are making decisions only based on how it affects them and that's why they can't agree with you.
40:01
That's why they just can't.
And what you're talking about is because they're not seeing it from the element of how does this impact others, it's all about what it's doing to them.
And so, you know, we talk a lot about like Jocko, why links lead up the chain of command?
That's what this is.
40:16
This is an element of that it's an element of learning and being aware about.
How is it the way I act and carry myself?
How does that affect the people around me?
This is where kids struggle, but as an adult, as the parent and as the employer sometimes you have to make decisions to protect the rest of the family.
40:33
There were times and I love my kids and they're maturing and there's such great things happening in our relationship so son, I taught her.
If you listen to this, but it took time for my son as an example.
My oldest to begin to realize that in.
Once there was some connections that began to happen inside him, I couldn't control this where he was starting to identify.
40:55
Oh, it wasn't just my dad telling me to do X because of me, it was Dad telling me X because I was having a negative impact on every wild else in the household.
Yeah.
And honestly so for parents like because again this is opinions and experience this is not fact or teaching if you're in that place like if you're in the dance and you're really wrestling with your kids, remember the challenge that Gap is because they don't see how it's affecting you, they don't see how it's affecting your partner, your spouse.
41:28
They don't see how it's affecting the rest of the kids in the house and that Changes you are, and you're actually coming into that situation from the perspective of, you're trying to mitigate damage across the rest of the franchise, right?
And they just don't get it in there.
41:44
Some battle patients that are required.
And in that sometimes, just like, with our employees, I've had employees where I had to say, hey, enough is enough.
You're no longer a part of this program, right?
We're not going to kick our kids out per se, but there may be some things that you have to put a temporary.
No on or or.
41:59
Anyways.
My point is with these employee relationship exam.
This is they leave my team but because I was willing to provide that very clear boundary later later, the seed was planted and later when they mature enough past that point they all the sudden, look, back and go, oh, that's what they meant.
42:19
And now their new employer, right?
Begins to see the fruit of somebody maturing and you played a role in that.
I think the only way that we can do that and I've tried to do more of this with my kids.
And guys, do I fucked this It's so bad more often than I didn't, but as an employer like us remembering, hey, we may not be the ones that experience this right away.
42:41
But we still have a responsibility to help our people understand this perspective.
Right?
And with our kids and I know you and I are in a different wrestling match heart of what you're trying to do and part of the obligation.
You feel as a parent to teach these lessons is that you are worried about how it's impacting other people.
42:57
And there are going to be times where you have to draw a line in the sand, in the sense of don't be responsible for the way they react.
Just let it ride and then when they mature past that hopefully that doorway of communication is open and then you can begin to proactively get back into that dialogue with them, because they're ready to hear it right?
43:15
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm just realizing more and more in the season with teenagers and my youngest is almost 12, but in a lot of ways and I think maybe other parents of, I think you probably speak to this, like, the younger.
I think just inherently matures faster because they were around.
43:31
I mean, depending on the age breakdowns.
But with the three, Years apart, is like, my youngest boy in a lot of ways.
He's very mature because he not only has he seen the older kids interacting with Mom and I and discipline and just all these Dynamics play out.
I think he's able to learn vicariously, you know, through the olders.
43:47
Yeah.
And I have a feeling, I'll probably happens in bigger families too but this season I'm realizing is more about me figure in my shit out.
Yeah.
And like we talked about that wrestling match inside of okay.
Am I trying to exert my authority here?
44:03
I'm identify too much with my reputation as a parent how my other people.
See my kids.
Yeah, how successfully is are in the way that maybe others expect or my own just internal desire to compete?
Yeah.
To win very sound to be an A+ player, is that I can get too attached to the outcome of my children and the way they're presenting themselves right now, and the choices are making right now is how much of that is coming to bear in this interaction, this one situation where they're challenging me in some way or they're pushing back.
44:33
Con some kind of authority.
I'm trying to exert out a, how much of that's me and how much of it is me actually just loving and protecting them.
It is a really fuzzy line.
Yeah.
And if I'm honest with myself, I think more often than not, it has more to do with me.
Yeah, if I'm really honest.
44:49
Yeah, I was listening.
Oh, so one of the author's, my wife and I've been reading the Sassoon.
Very, very challenging.
This Byron.
Katie, I brought her up before.
Yeah.
She wrote a book called loving what is that's really all just predicated on dealing with reality.
And and how do you navigate reality in a really honest way.
45:06
And she just talks about when it comes to Parenting that more often than not are really only responsibility is to keep our side of the street clean.
Yeah, it's like we get really focused on trying to control what the other side does.
It leads to a whole bunch of negative outcomes and when it comes to Parenting, you know, I think the way she would articulate, it is our job is to create a safe container for them to grow up.
45:28
And it's like our job is to provide the incubator.
That's safe, right?
We're we're available to them and I don't think she's saying that there is there are no appropriate boundaries.
Yeah, I don't think she's saying that at all.
But I think sometimes we over-index on controlling our children's Behavior to the nth degree.
45:46
And I think for me, I'm just now starting to connect with a lot of that is because of how I want to look at how I want to be perceived as a parent, but how like my own identity is a successful person.
Yeah, but just how much I tie that to my kids compliance for my kids, following the Path taken the approach.
46:04
Having the right attitudes that I want them to have, you know, all those things.
And what it does sadly is I think when I'm operating out of that it erodes the connection, the real connection is good.
I might get them to obey in the moment but they're less likely to give me access like they're less likely to come to me with with Dad, like, Curious, thoughts like that.
46:28
What do you think about this?
Or they're less likely open their life up to me, which of course, is What I want.
Like, I want to be present in their life.
Yeah, not just have them at home by 10:00.
Yeah, but I think Michael is apparent is I want to have a relationship with my kids.
46:43
And of course, there's give and take two relationships, but so and they transition, right?
They change over time.
One thing I was kind of thinking about as you said that and then if you're cool with that, I kind of want to talk about this like third phase that I get to hang in now.
But you know my wife has the same.
My wife is you know at the end of the day I kind of much heavier on the driver.
47:03
I did my wife's much heavier on the relational side and she tends to do a better job of not allowing her ego to get sucked into the moment.
And she's still really prioritizing relationship.
She's just naturally very gifted in the one of the things she's always said about our kids as they were growing up, and it's just a great reference point.
47:21
As she says, my kids is self-centeredness, is impeding on my self-centeredness.
It's like it, just if you could just chew on that for a minute and I think it's true as an employer to just think about that.
It's like this.
Person self-centeredness is impeding on my self centeredness, unfortunately, that's more accurate.
47:38
More of the time than it is that I just legitimately have this lesson.
I'm trying to pass on to somebody for their good thing you know.
They're gonna go for a wives.
Have my wife is the absolutely this that balance.
Sometimes she's a heat-seeking missile to the truth of the situation.
It's like honey it's the other day.
47:55
She's like honey voice.
So you see seem like you're really getting angry.
What's going on out?
I can't, I'm not angry.
You seen?
I'm angry.
Stop judging me.
Oh my goodness.
All right, so this third phase that I'm learning about.
Now, until you tell me about the, yes, it here it is.
48:12
And it's interesting because like, with anything, right?
They all have their challenges, and I think this is almost like that new layer of leadership.
So if we go back to draw those parallels with are maturing employees.
As we begin to raise our employees into these, we talk about succession planning is a key critical element for leadership and part of that then is what are we teaching our employees and then what are we Prioritizing to make sure that we have time.
48:35
So, here's my kids now, okay, 21:23, and the reality that I'm coming, more connected with is, my kids are going to do, one of two things in our relationship.
Now, they're either going to allow me in most cases to pursue them and if I'm really lucky, they'll pursue me.
48:52
Okay?
But there's a re-up there, 21, 23 years old.
You like, let's be honest about where we were at that age.
Your shits on fireman, you think the world still ready to be conquered, you got Just enough information and experience to get into a great bar fight, like like, you're ready to rock and roll.
49:08
Now, seeking your parents guidance out is probably not going to be second nature.
It may not be the easiest thing for them to ask more.
And I'm also still in my heroic journey in my early 40s, I'm building, I'm conquering, I'm developing.
And what I can easily lose sight of is that my kids are actually more open now, but if I keep acting as if they're in Phase 2, I'm going to miss the opportunity because they're not going to go out of their way to ask me.
49:37
Okay.
So what I mean by that, or what I'm learning is, I had the Epiphany that oh my gosh.
If I pursue my kids, now they're open.
They want to have some guidance.
They want a friend in the business, right?
They want a partnership with somebody that can actually be a bit of a sage, a bit of a guide.
49:54
But again, going back to my kids as self-centeredness impedes on mine.
If I am so focused on building and thinking that by my actions I'm me Ring for them.
What it looks like to win.
I'm gonna miss the mark now.
Yeah.
Okay.
So this is funny, right?
How these phases work and some of this you and I are just kind of banging out loud, but you said this thing of their hyper-focused on your actions.
50:15
Oh yeah.
Well, that part doesn't change.
So if I don't then slow my action and remind them that they're my priority, they're going to get the wrong lesson right there.
Going to be taught that you have.
The grind is the magic to fucking work your ass off, like, make all the money be wise, be driven.
50:32
That's the The answer, and it's an and like those tool kits are important but what my kids need to see from me now, is that I'm willing to slow down long enough to share the experience with them.
Yeah, transitions.
Right.
This is the reality of our employee development.
Our kids is development to, is that those expectations than role you have to play is gonna shift and you have to be willing to do it.
50:54
And so recently, it's like I'm learning stuff about financial literacy that I just blows my mind.
I had no idea because the mass is, don't even know a lot of the stuff that we're learning right now.
But it's everything.
It's the way that I think about my employer relationships, the way I think about my Business Partnership.
It's the way that I think about my marriage, like all those things, my kids now we'll listen to.
51:13
Yeah.
But I have to be the one that says, hey, let's get together on Tuesday, Mornings.
Hmm.
Hey, let's prioritize a Wednesday evening every other week, or weekly or whatever, so that we can share life together.
I have to ask and when I do they jump, they take it.
51:31
And I think as parents We forget that when our kids begin to move into that young adult phase, we're still operating from phase two, where we just know it's tough to get our kids attention.
Yeah.
Right.
And that's a good reminder for you, man.
Is like, remember that like right now I know it can be tough to keep your kids as attention because they're that age.
51:49
Yeah, but there is a transition over the next four to five years where as long as you keep extending the invitation eventually all the sudden, you realize, man, they're taking it every time.
Yeah, right.
And we just forget that, and we can lose the opportunity.
And so right now, I've moved into this That's very fun.
Whereas I learned things, I have to be careful not to make assumptions.
52:08
My kids won't be smart enough to understand it because I'm 40 and they're 23.
And the reality of it is when I share these tidbits of information, that's changing my life.
And changing my world perspective, they gobble it up man.
Because they are adult enough, you know, I mean, does that ring true at all?
52:24
From what you've seen from hundred percent?
Yeah.
I'm also I'm just thinking inside myself of, yes, it's not such a This is such a hornet's nest for me right now.
It's just such a vulnerable place for me, if I'm honest.
Yeah.
Where I think there's a lot of things that I've done wrong in hindsight.
52:41
Right.
You know, the rearview mirror is just so clear.
And then there's also a lot of desire right to shift gears and so it yeah, it's a humble place for me right now, you know, one piece of encouragement to you.
And again, I mean these are all opinions is, you know, we talked about battle patients.
52:57
Yeah.
Okay.
It's this idea of patience is not a virtue.
Yeah, we fold of entirely, most of us.
All right, so this idea with battle patients, right?
As we have to at times, give things enough time to develop.
So before we make a change to the plan, and I think as parents we often don't give enough time to the way that we're committed and behaving and acting.
53:19
We often don't practice enough, battle patience, to let things develop, and we begin reiterating and changing and modifying, because we're not seeing the result we want.
And the reality of it is, it takes years.
And as long as we marry some The things I know this is so much easier to say than do but just why am I responding or acting a certain way?
53:39
Is it truly for them?
Or is it because I'm worried about how somebody else feels or it's my ego or it's the whatever if we can hone on that part and we really can see, maybe even through some peer Network and some support.
And some friends that we really are trying to approach that item for the best interest of our kids old the course, just maintain the course, give them some time to mature on their own and you may realize that We're doing the right thing, right.
54:04
Just hang in the pockets like, for me and my kids, man.
It took years and I'm just now seeing that.
Okay, not all of it was a circus fire.
I mean, granted You Look Backwards.
I know I dicked some serious stuff up but I also see that.
I just needed to exercise some battle patients and not own their response.
54:24
Yeah.
And lo and behold as they mature a little bit they get a little more life experience under their belt.
All of a sudden my kids start saying things like Dad you were right you know the other thing too that I'm also also just like balance just some of the craziness.
So this time is with my kids.
One of the things I'm dealing with is they're very independent, very strong-willed, you know Derek that's kind of similar fuel this kind of.
54:43
Yeah it's bright and it's really for both my wife.
And I were both, there's a streak of Independence and stubbornness and frankly, I look at my life and it's been a huge driver and sharing some of the success I've been able to build and so and so there's this very real part of me that I'm starting to notice is you know what?
55:00
Wow it's creating some of the Short-term turmoil.
I know that that is the kind of attribute or like that's the kind of internal nuts and bolts.
Yeah, that helps people be really successful, right?
So it gets very quiet it's quite possible that I'm raising a couple entrepreneurs at the moment.
55:17
He write that as they sort out what they really want and their life.
Yeah it's that fire inside them, it's pushing back constantly.
Yeah, that's going to help them build a business or establish themselves in some other way to chart their own paths.
You know, I'd much and I've been trying to remind myself more, the said I would much rather have my children pushing back on my authority them passively just accepting it obey everything I'm saying, right?
55:44
Yeah.
And so I try to fly myself about as well, that that's I push back on my parents pretty heavily.
Yeah.
And it's part of what drives me forward, how you push back on life and what the mass is say and that's part of what allows you to continue to succeed to create your own path.
Yeah, that's right.
Yeah.
So, you know, I think we should title this episode.
56:02
This Is messy.
This is that's right.
We covered a lot of ground here and I'm uncertain about the value of it apart from what you've brought.
So you know that the thing people interesting about our show you know.
And I hope that that comes out in terms of look the reality of it is Chris and I are really indexed on the fact that we're whole people, we're not just restored, we're not just service providers.
56:22
We're not just entrepreneurs and business owners.
We're all these other elements about our relationship and so are you so those are Audrey's right?
That's how it's what we are, it's right.
And not always are we going to have a show?
So like and it's a lesson per se.
It's a lot of it is just reminding people you're not alone.
56:38
These kinds of struggles exist.
You're you know you're not the only one so that we can take some of that stress and anxiety out of what we do thinking that we're all are by ourselves and everybody else is kicking ass and taking names because the reality, it's just not true, if you know.
So anyways, thanks for hanging out with us and kind of going through.
56:53
This is messy show.
I think that it's probably part therapy for us and maybe again, it serves as a reminder, that you guys aren't alone and that we experienced similar things.
Hey, One of the things that's important for us to remind people it's like, yes, we are Consultants, right?
You guys, many of you understand that we run floodlight Consulting Group and that that's our in quotes day job.
57:12
We're very passionate about that responsibility.
In terms of how we Steward the relationships.
We have with our clients were very keyed in on why we do this for us.
The Consulting gig is not just a paycheck for us.
We went into Consulting to literally try to help people to marry up our perspectives and our experience with the fact that our restorers and our clients are whole people.
57:32
And That their lives are diverse and complicated and we try to not just partner on the nuts and bolts we have to provide that we're professionals and if we don't bring that then we're lacking some serious value.
But the other elements that we try to index in our relationship with our clients, the fact that we want to work with you as a person.
57:48
More highly relational driven in our relationship, all the Consultants that work with floodlight are focused on that first and foremost and we look at it as if we have to bring tactical guidance, you're getting paid.
You have to be a professional, but where will?
The Value for us, is the relational component.
58:05
And what we do to help you and work through the rest of the elements of being an owner, and a leader.
And I think that's like we talked about this with a restoration companies, right?
It's how we make people feel in the process.
It's not just do a good job doing repairs.
Yeah.
So just reminding people of that.
You can find out more about us at floodlight grp.com and then of course, if you like the show, you know what's most important to us, guys, if you can hit that follow button and then share it with somebody because it just gives us the fuel that we We need to continue to provide this as long as there's value.
58:36
So if you guys can support us in that way, we sure appreciate it.
Thanks for hanging out with us.
We'll see you next time soon.
All right, everybody, he thanks for joining us for another episode of head, heart and boots.
And if you're joined the show, if you loved this episode, please hit follow only known as subscribe.
58:53
Write us a review or share this episode with a friend, share it on LinkedIn.
Share it, via text, whatever.
It all helps.
Thanks for listening.
We need to continue to provide this as long as there's value.
So if you guys can support us in that way, we sure appreciate it.
Thanks for hanging out with us.
We'll see you next time soon.
All right, everybody, he thanks for joining us for another episode of head, heart and boots.
And if you're joined the show, if you loved this episode, please hit follow only known as subscribe.
Write us a review or share this episode with a friend, share it on LinkedIn.
Share it, via text, whatever.
It all helps.
Thanks for listening.