0:00
Good morning Brandon's.
Good morning, Chris.
I've noticed you're getting faster and faster on the draw there.
Like I'm a changed guy so weak, you kind of got in this pattern of opening up all the episodes and I'm like, you know what?
I kind of want to open up some of the episode.
So, I just started taking it.
I like it.
0:15
I like it.
And I like the initiative.
Fortune favors the Bold.
Astronomy.
This for we say, the early bird cat is where we start knocking out all these brand.
Oh yeah.
You're a bird.
Opens the podcast and all that stuff.
Yeah.
Yep, exactly right.
What are we doing here?
Man.
Well, we got a great show today.
0:31
We have Rachel Stewart back on, and we took a little bit different paths with her and so good, man.
She's just so much wisdom and just like her either.
Fun conversation.
Yeah.
Before we dive into that though, we've got some sponsors to.
Thank.
How about that?
Let's do it.
So see in our magazine one of our awesome sponsor partners and a friend.
0:49
Just last week we were at the Aria Convention international con for whatever it's called are a it's a annual thing and we got to hang out with Michelle again, you know it's interesting.
See in our is making a lot of moves.
I mean, since Michelle bought the business, I mean she just made one big launch after another and of course we've talked about it before.
1:09
I mean really helping all the rest of us in the industry, stay on top of what's happening with Ma and everything else.
Moving and shaking in the industry right now.
But one of the other things, a lot of people don't know about is their see credits.
Yep.
Like one of our other Consultants.
I saw an intro email just this past week to one of our clients and they take advantage of this.
1:27
Like and so even offering see He credits for your technicians and your team to take advantage of through see in our website.
Very cool.
Yeah, very cool.
If you're not a subscriber with seeing our, if that's just not on your radar yet, get with the program like CNR they are the Clearinghouse for industry, Intel and information and education.
1:48
And we write for seeing our in all of the other Premier educational companies Consulting companies, suppliers and vendors are also contributing to the CNR platform.
It's Where people go for stuff in our industry.
And so, if you're not plugged in there, you should be Michelle and her team are great.
2:06
And then on an advertising front, if you're advertising any kind of service or within the industry, you probably should be advertising on seeing our platform.
We do, and a lot of other Premier operators in the industry are as well, so give it the program.
All right, so, where are people are yes'm?
2:21
All right.
Lift defied.com, Zach Garrett in the team.
It's hard to come up with a new way to say the teams, just kicking ass, but that's just straight up with happen.
Bingo.
At the end of the day, their team gets massive results.
We've talked about this before.
So automated Google review platform, right?
2:37
Fire-and-forget hand over that client, that you just took great care of.
Put it in the hands of lift defy and have them get you that just reward of a five-star review.
So it can catapult your image online.
It can push a brand up in terms of SEO and organic search traffic.
2:54
Do we use the term surf anymore?
I don't know if we do that.
Might have dated me.
Yeah, but in general, they do an amazing.
Job return rates or participation rates north of 20 25 %.
They're getting a ton of data now.
So if you've been a bit of a slow roller on that decision because you wanted to see lift defies team, get more integrated in the industry.
3:14
Now's the Time, talk to their team.
They will clearly show you the data that shows that the teams that work for them are absolutely crushing the online review space.
So again, lift five.com do yourself a favor, make it happen.
And by the way, if you do a little forward, / floodlight on their it, sweetens the pot in your favor.
3:33
So left five.com some Bennie's.
That's right.
Okay.
So today Rachel Stewart, former executive leader of Titan restoration.
I mean, that's a name that most in the industry have been in the industry for more than a minute are familiar with Russ and Palmer and Rachel Stewart.
3:49
I mean they built a Titan pun intended, right?
I mean seriously I mean Titan restoration is really admired by a lot of companies around the country for their growth and all the things.
And it continued to be an industry leader for Rachel made this pivot ball.
Three years ago I think it branched out to start acceleration.
4:07
Restoration software, really trying to solve some of the critical challenges are frustrations that she experienced scaling a Restoration company in terms of job management software.
And you know what platform do we need to aggressively grow in a sustainable way, a restoration business.
4:24
And so she took all these gaps that she identified in the job management software that she'd use coming up.
In the industry and said, hey what if we could build a better mousetrap here and really address contractors needs both from job management, a CRM standpoint.
All the things that we as operators in the field desperately need to have an organized business and she did it.
4:44
She set out and it's happening they're gaining a lot of traction.
So we talked a little bit about accelerate in this but more.
So we talked about that Journey because it's relevant to all of us that have operated in the field.
Many of us didn't come up and restoration.
I would say, probably most of us did.
5:00
Any of us came from other Home Services trades or a totally unrelated business were like, hey, there's a need.
I see the opportunity and restoration industry and then you get in, you're like holy cow.
There's a lot of nuanced like Niche knowledge.
This is a weird industry in a lot of ways, right?
5:16
How do you manage those skill gaps.
So those knowledge gaps, we get into that.
How do you enter a foreign business and deal with that?
How do you build a team when you don't necessarily have to domain expertise in all areas?
And no, yeah.
In all areas to know what you're looking for.
5:31
And like, in Rachel's case, we start out talking about building a software company, but everything we talked about after that is hyper relevant.
Yep.
To every Restoration company out there and she drops some awesome.
It really does wisdom bombs in this thing.
So, hang in there for the whole thing.
5:47
It's like an hour and 10 minutes, we really.
It was awesome.
She gave us so much time, hang in there for the whole thing because there's these periodic, or it's like, whoa, or there's even some pregnant pauses where you and I are just like holy cow.
She just said that.
That's powerful.
Yeah I think at the end of the day this episode is really centered around leading at our Outer Limits, right?
6:06
And she does a great job excuse me of unpacking What It Takes what some of that transition looks like the ego checks the head game that she had to be playing in order to live and win and those Outer Limits.
So yeah, let's get into it right on.
6:28
Welcome Back To The Head heart and Boots podcast.
I'm Chris, and I'm Brandon.
Join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses.
We leave the love this industry.
Rachel welcome.
6:43
And thank you for coming again.
How are you?
We're good, we're getting this round number two.
Right.
We were just talking about this.
Like the first time you were here, was what, 10 years ago or something?
Thing like that, the very Beginnings, does it feel that way?
I mean, I feel like we've known each other.
6:59
I mean, we've really known each other.
I knew you and Brandon connected previously and the operations roles and stuff, but it feels like years since we first were talking and it's only been 18 months or something.
So no, it was like a deep fast friendship and it's one of those where?
7:15
Yeah I feel the same.
I'm like oh yeah we've know like I've been in the industry. 15 years.
You were bused been in the first 5 years.
No no.
Nope, I know, it's wild, it's crazy.
How fast time is gone for all of us.
And we were just kind of making some comments because we just went to our IA.
7:32
Like, we were seeing some folks for the first time in real life like that.
We've had six twelve months virtual friendships with or Partnerships with and then you're just like seeing them live.
First hugs, you know, first hugs after almost a year of knowing each other, right?
It's weird, looks so different in person than on Zoom.
7:50
Yeah, like you meet somebody in there like six foot for your Like dude, you've been sitting down for every meeting we've ever had.
We had no idea that you were that tall or they're shorter or they're right?
It's the same.
Hey yeah, that happened to me last year at a couple of events, you know, because we're totally virtual team.
8:08
So I've hired a lot of people so employees that I meet for the first time and I was like, you look so different.
I was expecting something different.
Anyway, that's got to be a trip.
You have with your own people, right?
Like and anyway, that first like I'm a hugger we gonna hug your what What?
8:24
I know I know, right.
Yeah, well I think the other thing too, is you and I in some ways, we're in parallel, Lanes, lately, like you just had one of your kids graduate, right?
And leave the nest s happening this year.
So and I'm having my first graduate out this year, like we're it's upon us.
8:42
How are you feeling?
Boy, there's sand or will not show?
That's a whole new show.
A lots of mixed feelings.
It's very weird.
I mean, my daughter has been clamoring for Independence.
I mean yes.
Reaching for it, pretty much since she was 12.
And so, it feels very schizophrenic.
8:59
I'm sure you can relate to this.
It's like on the one hand.
Like we're really excited for just go out and figure out, go do your thing, you know, and then there's this other part where, like the brevity of life, right?
Like what does this mean?
Our first one is leave it.
Like holy cow, my wife and I have been married, 21 years.
9:15
Our kids used to be here and now, like they're kind of becoming an adult kinda.
So there's this weird existential, Thing of, what does this mean about my life?
And how old I am, and how much is in front of me versus behind, like, all that stuff, you know?
Yeah, I mean, I had done a podcast a couple of years ago about just that work-life, balance the two oldest on there.
9:37
So the one that graduated last year, the one that's graduating this year and basically kind of the message was like, you can do it.
Like, if you work with your kids and have good communication and everything, you can kind of have this like you can make it work.
Like it's not maybe going to be pretty all the time.
9:53
I think that that was kind of the message.
I was hoping like to convey but then you get to this other side of it and you're like, oh this is time.
I'm never going to get back and you really struggle like, on the one hand, I feel like I gave my kids.
This really great balance of seen that, you can go out and make something of yourself and have goals and like reach for your dreams.
10:14
And I think I gave them confidence and some of that like, but then you're also, like, there's moments that I missed and I'm never giving them back so tough thing.
Thing.
But I understand it so fun to see like the person that they're growing into and what they're going to do and and all that and then you're like, don't forget me.
10:33
Gosh isn't that like The Balancing Act that all I'd say, I mean, business owners, right?
Key employees, we all struggle with it, but man is more and more weight is on your shoulders to strategize deploy.
Think long-term be in the trench and create right and do all those things.
10:52
It's so Hard to not lose track of that time with your family is limited.
There's these blocks, these moments that you can take advantage of and they do go by quickly.
Honestly, in a lot of ways, I wish I had less regret about some of the things that I did with my time because both my kids are out, like, I have a 21 and a 23 year old and is our relationships are almost closer in some ways now than ever.
11:17
Oh, I bet they're a little more adult like I think in terms of what our relationship is like, but man.
It's true.
Like, I look back and it's a done deal.
Like I'm not going to get some of those moments back but as a word of encouragement, I don't know if you guys care or not, but here's a word of encouragement.
My son, as an example is mature enough.
11:35
Now that I'm being pursued, like, he's coming to me for awesome.
You know what I mean?
For the relationship stuff and now it's just like, okay, if that door opens, or if that's coming, I just want to acknowledge it.
Stop what I'm doing and give them that time.
11:51
So that's really rewarding.
So, you guys don't I mean yes.
Some of the stuff you can't do it again but man is there a whole new realm of fun that you get to have in the next phase?
Or said she has all adult kids now and she's like Rachel it's awesome.
It's so much fun.
I'm like, are you sure?
Anyway but yeah I sent both of mine.
12:10
Well I'm going to be sending my son to like across the world.
So my daughter's in Chile right now and my son's going to Brazil pretty much into lie.
Wow moments after he graduates.
And so I hope they're ready off you go.
12:26
They certainly will be by time, it's over.
Yeah, back, they'll be changed humans.
So in full-on Spanish speakers as well?
Boy, that's there was Portuguese, right?
Yeah, Brazil.
Yeah, interesting.
Yeah.
Anyway, it's right, well, that was kind of a side track for your listeners.
12:43
The well, you know what, it's real and I imagine some other people are in the same season.
The life, right?
Well, yeah, so let's dive in founder and CEO of accelerate restoration.
Where I thought it'd be interesting for us to talk about that transition because you made a huge pit way.
12:59
In some ways, it's a huge pivot in other ways, right?
You're still serving the industry that you grew up in, but it was explaining ahead of time.
I have this very tiny little experimental experience of doing a software startup with an engineer, buddy of mine, and a designer friend of mine, several years ago, and that's a whole nother show up potentially, but I think there's something interesting there.
13:21
Because in our industry, we have A lot of new people coming into the industry, many of them coming from other either Home Services or other types of roles.
You know, I mentioned ahead of time, we have a client who came in from being an accountant, you know, for a some other business category and they saw the opportunity and restoration and they've done very well but it's also been an extraordinary lift making that transition into a very unique industry and for you.
13:46
I'm just so curious to hear and I think our audience would be interested to hear to about what that's been like to make that transition from Coming up through the ranks in restoration and ultimately leaving that side of the business is a senior executive and going into software and a technology startup and kind of being in that whole Silicon Valley, Tech Venture space working with programmers and because in my experience it's just a massive context shift.
14:16
And yet I think it's really relatable to others who are coming in Industry from other things that are navigating the same kind of thing.
So would you mind taking us Back to, we talked a lot about your experience of Titan, but talk about that transition of leaving the operating and going into startup phase again.
14:34
What was that?
Like, can you walk us through that story a little bit?
First of all I will say like I had no idea what I was getting into or no idea what I was doing.
I mean I thought I did I'm like, oh I know exactly what needs to be built in this space, right?
14:49
Like I know where all the gaps are because I've been in every system.
I have all the same headache that most of the contractors have the challenge of getting field documentation like how to make that easier for the technicians because there's so many areas of resistance points of friction and how to make that easy.
15:06
And then how do I make it easier to manage all these projects?
I mean we were running, probably 300 open jobs at the time and being able to tell where everything was and being able to stay.
On top of that, make sure we're hitting margins and all that kind of stuff.
So anyway, I had this beautiful No idea of what needed to be built right now.
15:25
Is like, how come nobody's doing this?
Come on.
Like, I get on Amazon and I have a package here and 12 hours.
How hard can it be?
You know, anyway, that was probably really stupid right, like Amazon's a billion dollar company and has 100,000 developers.
15:43
It's hard.
Anyway, so yeah, I mean, I think for me that was a benefit right?
Like that naivety and the speed at which I thought we would go.
Like gather customers and the speed at which we could get profitable was really naive and the amount of money that it would take like, all of those kind of things anyway.
16:03
So I don't know how much detail you want me to go into but and learning like when the first moment was when I was like oh this is going to be a lot harder than what I was and give us one of those.
Yeah.
Like walk us through those first few because I presumably you had some business meetings with people exploring like how do I start a software?
16:21
Could get walk us back through.
Some of those, if you don't mind some of those early stories.
What were your first steps?
Like, how did he even look?
First of all, was, just like, the amount of money that it would take to really build what needed to be built.
I had a couple of like early estimations, it was like, oh, it's going to be a million dollars.
16:39
And then there were a lot of people that were like, okay, take that.
And then double it because I was like, it can't be that expensive to do this, right?
Like, it's really anyway.
So like some of that A little bit, shocking the way that Engineers think and the way that my restoration brain thinks is just different.
17:01
And so I had to open up to which has been a really good skill set is to think about, not just solving the immediate problem, but how solving that problem affects 25 different things or 30 different things?
17:16
Because if you're saying, hey people just want statuses, I'm flexible statuses, right?
Like, originally, we built statuses in there that were concrete, like every job went through these first statuses first, it was a new, then, it went into sales and then depending on whether it was water or Recon, it would either go into selling the job.
17:38
So, pre-production or estimating and you have these certain status of workflows that would go.
But then people are like, well, we kind of run things different.
We want this flexibility and you're like, okay, no problem.
We can make these statuses flexible.
Well are you thinking, 10 steps, down the road, we're okay now we want to start aggregating data to feedback to people to help them see like either benchmarking or different things and be able to see Trends or correlations between certain carriers maybe or certain referral types and how that leads to profitability or whatever.
18:17
Well, if you have all of these different statuses that people just make up, then you're not being Able to aggregate data in a way that's helpful for them.
So those kind of decisions where you think, oh, that's just an easy decision.
And that's one that only affects maybe one other thing.
18:34
But there's lots of decisions when you're like, oh, that's now going to impact 10 different pieces in the software and the way that people run their business.
And so being able to open up my mind to solving problems, differently has been a really great skill for me.
Like, what is that look like in practice.
18:51
So obviously, I mean, I hear you say it, I'm like, Okay, that makes sense that you have to expand your ability to strategically problem-solve.
But, what did you do to actually increase that capacity?
Was it just experience like, just being forced to at some point?
Or does it become a little bit more proactive?
19:08
Yeah, definitely.
Just practice, right.
And being able to ask a question, okay?
How many other things will this impact and being able to think down the road?
Like I think in respiration it's like, okay, how do we solve this immediate problem?
And then if Another problem pops up later.
19:25
Then you're just going to solve that problem, right?
And even in your Sops and stuff that you build your like that.
A lot of people think oh I'll build this to a certain degree and then I know it's going to fail and I'm going to have to like just restart and maybe not restart but I'm going to have to revisit and we're going to have to recreate our Sops for this different dynamic or this larger company or this extra division that we brought in.
19:49
Right.
And I actually think that that's a good way to solve problems.
It's fast your agile, you're able to do the best thing in that moment to help scale.
And you know, that at different stages of growth, you're just going to have to restructure and it actually works okay, but you can't do that.
20:06
You cannot build software in a way that you have to rebuild it every couple of years or whatever.
Like, you always need to be innovating at some point you're going to maybe have to look at your technical debt and re-evaluate at some point.
Maybe it does make sense to rebuild a module or do Something.
20:23
But if you were doing that with all of your decisions based on something, as simple as the example, I gave you about statuses that's going to be like a road to failure.
So, I mean, I don't know that it's necessarily like the best skill set for every position or everything in life.
20:41
I think with restoration you have to be able to make decisions quickly.
And this it's like really like slowing down and being able to just really dive into all of The nuances, it's interesting.
Kind of the path you started to go down there.
20:56
So one of the things that I think I wrestle with pretty often is when we're working with teams, there's this obvious path that you can look backwards and see where we just in the moment.
Put this Band-Aid on in the moment.
We stepped in and did X.
In this moment, we took over and finished or completed this right?
21:14
But we weren't problem-solving to create a solution in that moment and I know that's not what you're talking about.
Because we've seen the company that You were a part of we've seen what your track record looks like, just from your perspective.
Can you give us some clarity around the difference between problem-solving live?
21:32
Like you're talking about in an agile, Quick Way versus slapping a Band-Aid on something that will end up making that same problem show up next week so that you're forced to put that same bandaid on it again.
So the way that I talked about it and especially when I was working with managers is like what quadrant are you operating in?
21:51
So if you had these Four quadrants and one is like the Strategic thinking and forward thinking and problem solving and then you've got one.
That's just more like your day-to-day operations on is like your people on that.
22:06
Maybe the other one is just like putting out fires all of the time and I was like if you're spending a majority of your time in number for putting out fires all the time you need to go back to your first quadrant and you need to start strategic thinking you need to start.
22:23
Solving problems.
So you're not always operating in like putting out fires and so I think if you can kind of say if this is what I'm doing all the time is just sticking Band-Aids on everything.
Then, I've got a real strategic problem and I've got to go back and think about.
22:38
Okay, where are the true pain points?
And if we can start operating proactively and start putting in some things, even just with customer communication, you know, if you're always, like, waiting for that customer to reach out, or Express, a problem, or Like what's happening next on my job or whatever and you went back to quadrant one and we're more proactive in your communication reached out to them was like, hey, this is what you can expect along the way you're going to have to spend way less time on the phone.
23:08
So I was like, if you're operating in quadrant 1, if you're not there getting the quadrant one, get somebody else to put out the fires, get somebody else to deal with some of this get there.
Put some Sops in place, put some standardization be Proactive in your planning and your going to save so much time on this back-end and I think that that's what people like fail to do.
23:31
They are like I know I need to do some of this stuff but I just don't have time.
Like I will get to it and then they never get to it.
Because quadrant four just keeps building and building and building, building building.
I think that's a good point like that differentiator because people do know, and that's kind of what you just alluded to is you know, when you're repeating Here, that's not actually fixing the problem.
23:55
Like, you know, it in the back here.
Mind.
And that's that hint of the more you exercise that practice versus getting out of it, going back into quadrant run and actually solving the issue then it just perpetuates that problem.
I was going to say just having some standard operating procedures that you put in place, like even making a technology decision.
24:14
Like we run into this all the time people like will demo the software and they'll be like oh this is going to fix so many of my problems I'm in.
But we're in the middle of this cat situation, which I get cat is crazy, and then cat ends, and then they're just still so swamped.
24:30
And this decision goes on and on, and on, and on.
And you're like, if you had just like a fraction of some of these things in your business, but they can't stop long enough to implement and like, I feel for him, it's hard.
So I want to Circle back to the other part of this conversation which is you've identified this need.
24:50
As you've been starting accelerate working with A working with software where you can't just put Band-Aids on because you can't constantly be going back to ground zero and changing the foundation, right?
I think for a lot of companies is they start to get in, maybe it's 10 million 20, there's some range there where you start to have enough people on your team to start to operate more strategically.
25:11
And you really have to, then to grow to the next level.
Like I hear you saying, when you're in the software business, you really have to be good at thinking about the downstream effects of your decisions.
And I think, Ink as restoration companies, get bigger.
You have to think about that, too.
25:27
Because otherwise, you end up creating as many problems as you're solving over the Long Haul over a 2 3 4 5 year period, have you learned some processes or are there certain types of kind of guided conversations that you have with your team with developers?
When you are facing a problem where you get in, you can identify those Downstream effects.
25:46
Like what is that look like?
Sound like is you guys are problem-solving now?
Yeah, I mean I would say probably the biggest example of that in Operation for me was hiring.
So getting a good hiring process because you're like, oh we are so busy, we need to get bodies in the seats and then you fill them with bodies and if you don't fill them with the right bodies, like how expensive that is?
26:07
And how much damage that can do culturally or even just slow down your growth because you're like, oh, I'm going to continue to work with this person.
They have potential and you're continuing to try to invest in this thing and like tweak it and make it work, sometimes it does Does and more often than not, it doesn't.
26:25
So I think it's just the first one would be recognizing that impact, right?
Like you're just like oh well if it doesn't work them or really not better off like we will fix this problem.
You know we're not worse off or still going to have to find somebody.
Well, you are worse off.
26:41
You know, there's all of this expense that went into that person.
So I think identifying what the true cost of it is right and my head of development, always thought About this.
Like if it costs a dollar to get it right in the moment, it costs five dollars to fix it in testing and it costs you know a hundred dollars to do it once.
27:05
It's gone out to reproduction if it's not right smoke taking that time to step back and do it in the moment.
So, for restoration contractors, I think they're hiring process would be number one.
So, for us, we went through when I was over at Titan top grading, to have some sort of system in place, I'm not saying that that's the only one or that's the best one.
27:25
You can read the book who there's lots of different strategies but to have a strategy around being able to identify cultural fits in the beginning and not just skill set would be a good one and then being able to have a plan to develop and train and grow leaders within your organization.
27:46
So I mean, when we like have a new system or a new thing that we're working on it, Really important for us to say, okay, in its entirety.
What does this need to look like in its entirety?
What do we need to build?
28:02
And like, kind of dream out the best case scenario?
And then make sure that the decisions that we are making in the interim like cuz you're not going to roll out the best possible solution, right?
You're going to have a minimum viable product.
Normally this probably isn't going to make sense to your listeners.
28:18
But we don't do waterfall development, right?
It's agile and You're really incremental?
Yeah, it's incremental growth yet to build this but you want to make sure that these incremental things that you're doing, aren't going to impact what your long-term goal and vision is for the product.
28:35
And there are decisions that you make that can prevent you from being able to reach your final destination that you would want to be at.
So I would definitely try to think that way as you're putting in some of your processes, even in restoration, can I try to connect the dots here, a little Let's summarize that a little bit.
28:54
I'm just thinking from the restore side a little bit here and I'm just thinking of some of our conversations.
We've had recently some of our teams.
So what I'm hearing you say is first off, there's this reality that you're going to have to in the moment, do something to put that fire out.
29:11
We're not petitioning to anyone that you just all the sudden delay, your decision making because you're going to come up within quotes a long-term strategy.
So there's this action of okay, dude.
Today, what you need to to put that fire out, but take note of what that fire was and then take the appropriate amount of time, required to try to identify what the cause of that was.
29:33
What was the cause that created that fire was it?
A people issue a process issue, a system issue and then identify what the in-state solving that looks like, okay.
In a perfect world, we would no longer have this fire because we do XYZ, right?
29:49
And then what I'm hearing you say though, is you don't go from putting Out the fire to solving the problem in one Fell Swoop.
There's potentially some iterating that's going to happen.
Where identify?
Cause I identify where I want to go.
And in the interim, I may have one or two versions of that solution is 100% And it's important to take those first steps.
30:13
Like I'm a big proponent of not waiting till something hundred percent fully baked and done before you start implementing because the world moves too fast.
You will never get there.
You will continue to reiterate and reiterate and reiterate and reiterate like if you were working for the perfect marketing plan and you just sat, okay, well today, chat GPT came out.
30:36
Okay.
Well I want to use this as some version of my marketing strategy, okay?
But I don't have the perfect prompts that are going to give me the best possible results of this and so then you're sitting on it and in the meantime like who knows what's coming next and next?
30:52
And next time, So then nothing ever gets implemented.
So it's like okay we're going to start today with this section and we're going to roll it out and we know that we're going to have to improve it.
We're going to have to iterate.
We're going to have to get data back right feedback back.
And then we're going to have to make some iterative changes till we see Improvement and we're never 100% done.
31:14
Like, we're just constantly evolving.
What else are you saying to is be careful when you're doing the firefighting that the solution?
Even if it's not the perfect solution?
Lucien isn't sabotaging the bigger Vision.
Like yeah, we're going to be firefighting and yeah, we need to adapt in the moment but be careful that that temporary Choice you're making isn't in direct conflict with where you're headed and I think that's a mistake, a lot of us make and I hiring things the perfect.
31:39
You can we talk about desperation brain all the time.
It's like, man, I got so much work in production.
I have so many average calls that we receive every day.
I lose that Tech.
I got to get another tech in there as fast as possible and so, We often make an exception to the long-term Vision.
31:57
We disregard the long-term Vision to plug that hole.
And in some cases we end up taking our team because we aren't thinking about the downstream effect of bringing in a bad culture, Misfit or even a toxic person because we get in that mindset of will, can they carry equipment and suck water out of the rug.
32:15
Get in there, go, do your thing and then they sabotaged a curated drama on that team.
We lose to other people because they don't want to work.
With that relationships that you worked hard to build.
You know there is a lot of consequences of that.
Yeah.
Rachel from your perspective.
32:30
How do you balance?
Because I think this is just such a natural.
Next thing is, how do you balance the difference between a state of constant change?
Because teams we've seen it where that team.
It's like their process changes every three months because they're just constantly a work in process and you burn out the energy of the team, the commitment, the hope the excitement.
32:52
What that change going to deploy and it's just you here, the tension in the statement of, oh yeah, we're always changing scrap, right?
It's so funny.
You know, what I would have said under normal circumstances rachhloves would have said, we always are changing shit.
But for some reason, when I have you on my show, I don't want to say the word shit.
33:08
Because it's Rachel.
So how do you balance that?
How do you manage that?
Yeah, as a leader.
So I think that there's a difference between constant change and constant Improvement.
So if you are Strategy is constantly bouncing, then you've got a problem like and that's not to say that we don't need to be flexible and we don't need to be agile and sometimes a market condition changes and we have to be flexible and jump on that.
33:38
But that's pretty rare.
I think that's more the exception than the rule.
So I think if you find that your strategy is constantly changing like oh this week, we're going after Hospital work.
Three months from now.
That didn't work.
33:53
So we're changing over to this vertical or whatever.
When no amount of work is going to come from hospitals and three months.
I mean that is going to be a long tail strategy decision.
And I think sometimes people aren't really thinking long-term through strategy decisions.
34:09
And so then they bounced from, okay?
We're going to pull all of our sales people from that and we're going to send them over to property management.
And oh can you get involved in Boma and all of these other kind of things and the next day, oh, we're heavy into TPA or Whatever, like, just looking for, wherever the fastest solution is, right?
34:27
And if it doesn't come immediately than they're switching directions.
So I think that that's one of the issues, right?
Is that there's not real belief and vision in the vision of where you're going.
Like, that needs to be come hell or high water and I just curse for you, Brandon just see guys.
34:45
That's why I wouldn't have wanted to say the word because in her context, we've just really crossed a line.
Oh no.
Um what made by did?
This is the direction we are going and like we're committed to this because we believe it is the right decision, long term for the company.
35:01
And we know that there's going to be obstacles and barriers in the way and we're not just going to start dodging obstacles when things get hard.
Mmm!
So I think that's one of the reasons that companies can be switching a lot.
And then the second is I think that they're putting in things without again, thinking about the long-term consequences of things.
35:21
So, if If you put into a plan and this is the first version and then you're just adding to it, you're just rounding it out.
You're adding some depth and some things, that's different than you're changing compensation.
Plans, every three months because you hadn't thought about certain scenarios, where this Compensation Plan was not scalable.
35:42
And I think that that kind of goes back to my correlation between the software company, right?
Like if we continue to develop things and didn't think about the long-term impact of things than we would release, Something and it would break something else, and we'd be having to go back.
Oh, and redo it, redo it redo it, redo it, redo it, and your users would just get so fed up with that.
36:02
You know, I think there has to be enough thought into the long-term consequences, and then sticking with a plan long enough to see its fruition and not backing down anytime there's barriers or obstacles.
Okay, let's just try to find the easier route and then you're okay, we're going to change directions.
36:22
There's a barrier here.
We're going to change directions back rather than saying okay now we have a barrier.
How are we going to overcome that?
What's the next iteration of this to continue down the path?
We're going.
All right, head heart and boost listeners want to stop.
36:38
You're just a moment and thank our underwriting sponsor floodlight Consulting Group as all of, you know.
Right.
You know, Brandon and I this is our passion project.
Had hardened boots is but it's also a way of more and more that are Consulting clients find us and in effect they interview US, write those even listen to show for a while.
36:57
You get to know who we are, right what we're about.
So if head heart boots is valuable to you.
One of the best things you can do is share it with your friends and it's Incredible to watch just the audience grow, we still get text messages from many of you about shows that you really like and impacted you.
37:13
So that's number one and please keep doing that.
Many of you have been huge, Advocates of the show.
We also just want to remind you to.
If you're a Restoration company owner, and you're interested in a partner in your growth, you want some help building out systems, developing your leadership teams helping set up the infrastructure for you to scale and grow into the company that you're trying to build.
37:35
That's what We do.
That's what we do.
Is we come alongside Restoration company leaders, we help equip them and we help support them in that growth trajectory.
So, if you're looking for that, go to floodlight gr p.com, potentially, we could be a great match for each other.
Another way that we really do serve our client base in our sphere of influence, is through our Premier Partners.
37:54
We work really hard to bet those folks that we believe bring a level of value to the industry, that it can really be leveraged in a way to have a sincere positive impact on your business.
We take that very Recently, the folks that we create those kind of ongoing Partnerships, that's not a check, the box kind of scenario.
38:11
It's, it's we really see strategic alignment in the value that they bring.
We see value in the way that their leadership teams and their partners are developed.
And we've done very sincere work of ensuring that these folks that we introduced our clients and our sphere to can actually create vetted value.
38:27
So go check out floodlight grp.com forward, slash Premier / partners, and see if there's some folks on there that you can connect with and begin developing.
Ripping some other resources to support your growth and your business.
Okay.
I got another question that I think is also a hard hitter, and that is what my experience was software.
38:44
One of the most difficult thing and I couldn't make the jump.
Ultimately, I didn't figure it out in this season is I didn't know enough about software and programming to where I felt like I knew what questions to ask of my people.
Like, I didn't know how to direct.
39:02
I could not see the path between what Vision I had.
I might have ultimately what I wanted, that app to look like and what the user enter.
I have this Vision in my head but all of the language and all of the parts and all of the, how much time and how much money and you've already talked about just how much money it costs versus what, it seemed like it would cost maybe before you get into it.
39:23
How do you know when you need to go in and develop a skill base for yourself, like you need to learn the basics of programming and stuff like that versus just Staffing to it.
And then how do you manage that knowledge and skill Gap to effectively lead?
Because I think a lot of restores fall in this situation, right?
39:42
Whether it's they came up in the industry on the sales side and they never really had an active role in field operations.
And so they're an owner that's more sales Focus.
They don't know specifically, how to drive quality control in mitigation or Recon operations or vice versa.
40:01
They don't know how to hold their sales team accountable because they don't know the language of it.
How have you negotiated that?
And how have you solved for that?
Because I think that's a huge black box for a lot of owners in certain areas where all the years are the business.
Like, for example, we talked about somebody coming into Resto from a totally different industry from an accounting background or maybe an HR background, it's like, oh my gosh, how do I hold people accountable when I don't even necessarily understand the kpi's and the language of the, you know, what I mean?
40:31
Does that make sense, right?
It makes total sense because I felt that exact same.
I'm liked are coming into this because you are putting so much money and there's so much riding on it for it to be, right?
And so then you're like, okay, I'm just having to trust this vendor or this employee or whoever that they know what they're doing.
40:51
And I did not enjoy being in that position at all.
So I would recommend this for everyone.
Doesn't matter is first, surround yourself with a strong network of people who you trust.
Who also know more than you.
41:08
So I think you can fix so many of those knowledge gaps by doing that.
So for me, it was okay, I don't know technology, but I need to put myself in a technology space where I am surrounded by very smart technology.
41:24
People who then I can go to and ask questions about and get feedback that I can trust right.
And so that was sacred Clarity right there.
I don't mean to cut you off.
You're saying out.
Outside of your organization and or industry?
Peers.
Yes.
41:40
So, for me, I joined a group.
I was very lucky to be part of, which is AZ startup.
And it's run by a couple of Founders that exited had dice exits.
A lot of them in this a space and they were like, we want to help Founders be able to do what was so hard for us to do and they're really building out the Phoenix Market ecosystem in terms of startups and doing a lot of things.
42:03
So I was lucky enough to be a part of Group, which then put me in cohorts of other Founders.
A lot of them are SAS companies and a lot of those SAS Founders are technical Founders, right?
And so, we get together, we do masterminds, we talk about, like, what are pressing problems?
42:21
I can send something over and then they also make their people available to me like their CTO or their heads up product or whatever.
If I have a question, I was like, okay, who's running into this development problem?
How do you guys solve it and instantly?
Have 25 answers.
42:37
And I'm like, okay, we're on the right track or hey, we need to Pivot.
So that was one thing to I have just had to expand my knowledge base.
That's just fundamental, but it happens organically.
I think I came into restoration new less than nothing.
42:53
I had no knowledge and came in as a bookkeeper office manager.
And I grew and scaled, and then, I also think the third thing is to hire people.
Are very, very skilled and knowledgeable in your big gap and people that you feel like you can trust right?
43:13
And that fit all of the cultural things as well.
I was lucky enough that we hired that on our first higher, right?
So the first employee of accelerate, Nathan link has been kind of that person for me, who has that technology, background that knowledge Gap.
43:31
And that also, I can trust.
And so as we discuss strategy and some of these like, He feels in a lot of those gaps, so it's a problem but it doesn't have to be a barrier.
We scaled Titans over 24 million dollars and I couldn't tell you the first thing about how to run a dehumidifier like that was not my role.
43:50
I had a bunch of people in the organization that knew that and had that skill set.
Now, I mean, I have no doubt that I could fill that knowledge Gap, like, I could go take those classes, I could be on site and I would be totally fine, but Wasn't what my role was, right?
44:07
I was thinking strategy.
I was thinking people, I was thinking scaling I was like doing all of those things that were like very critical to the growth of the business and like we had a really big loss one year.
It was like a nine million dollar water loss and we were there for a good couple months, taking care of that.
44:27
And I did all of the billing for that that was a skill set.
That I had to develop in that moment because we had a problem we have brought In a consultant that consultant wasn't doing what was promised for us.
They were just there to do all of the billing.
So I had to step in and take over and learned everything I needed to do on that job.
44:46
It ended up working out and it was a good profitable job for us.
So I think there's a lot of things that you're going to step into that.
You don't know how to do.
You could figure it out.
One thing I do most parallel with what you're saying, I think it's spot-on, is I often see leaders that are competent in a certain category but then they're afraid to lead.
45:05
Are people that they've hired in those other areas of expertise?
And so like an example would be lets say I'm an owner of a business and I did come in from outside of the industry.
I'm trying to fill the knowledge Gap, I go out and I hire a very competent mitigation department manager and they've got plenty of time and grade doing commercial large loss, they're just great at executing and delivering the service in the field.
45:28
And then what I see as a then that business owner becomes very hesitant to be the leader of the Organization, because they get caught up behind this idea that they're not technically, as competent as that individual is in, let's say, running field operations.
45:44
And I think what you just highlighted was very important and that is there are going to be times where you need to fill that knowledge Gap, 100%.
But like you said, what's your job is a company, owner is a key leader strategy, scaling systemization process developing your people hone that skill craft, right?
46:05
And Be afraid to lead your people, you still know what your business is going to look like, you know what you want from your company and that person that you put into that seat because they're technically skilled needs you to lead them in the strategy, the vision and the growth and where you want to go as an institution.
46:22
And so I just want to remind people, don't forget your real responsibility in this mix and don't hesitate to lead even though you don't feel as technically competent about a field craft it, for example, as the person.
Is Gracie that a lot?
I don't want to simplify this.
46:40
Like I think a large part of the reason I've been able to be so confident in just what I was doing was also that the owner of the Restoration company and my counterpart in all this like was very knowledgeable in that sector.
So I do think that's why so many Founders will have Partners, right?
46:59
They have a partner that's really good at this and person that's like the two of you like Brandon your operational.
You do more of the sales and training and the way that you guys do that together is very helpful, you know.
So I do think that it is important to have that expertise in that knowledge in the organization at the top.
47:19
Right.
Like there needs to be that and if there isn't then fill it or go learn it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But I also think, when is the last time that you had a meeting with a mitigation manager, Brandon, and you sat down and talked about, like, The psychometric readings on a job.
47:38
That's not what you're there to do, right hundred percent.
Yeah, you're there you when you're coaching and training and growing a leader, you're talking about much higher level things and you wouldn't want that conversation to start getting in the weeds.
47:54
If it got into the weeds at that granular level, then you'd be like, hey we got in the weeds like we need to pull this up a level and so to remember really what the purpose of those meanings are, is going to help your confidence too.
Because it's not to dig into the specifics on that.
48:09
Unless those specifics lead to again a long-term strategy issue or a quadrant one issue.
We got to get back there because this reoccurring.
So do you have a way that you ask questions and maybe it's just wing it, but do you have a bit of a methodology?
48:26
Like, if I'm rolling into a room, and I want to make sure that I'm getting a clear understanding of the technicalities, or whatever, that's required in this particular conversation or sector of the business.
It's like do you have a way that you ask questions so you can get the level of information that you need but still stay in that lane that you're talking about or stay at the appropriate level.
48:45
Yeah, so I never tried to pretend like I know what?
I don't know.
Like that's been very important to me, right?
Like to just sit there and go oh I know what they're talking about or pretend that, you know, isn't a good position.
49:00
I think to be in, unless you don't have a lot of trust.
And then in that situation, I wouldn't Try to like there's a bigger problem, right?
So I never tried to like with my team or whatever.
Try to express to them.
That I know more than I do.
49:17
And sometimes those are kind of vulnerable conversations, where it's like, hey I've never done this before and so we're solving this problem together.
I'm sorry you're having to follow a leader, that's not experienced in this, but I have confidence that we can figure this out, and if we don't have the skillset in this room, we will bring the expertise from outside.
49:35
And so, I think that that's the very first thing because people will be able to recognize that.
While it takes a lot of Courage.
Yeah, and that's definitely a later skill set for me.
Like that wasn't necessarily my Mo as a early operator.
Or is it early manager?
49:52
So being able to look at problems?
Be a comfortable saying?
Yeah.
I don't know.
I don't know the solution.
So but what you do need to be confident is I'm confident in our ability to solve this problem and I'm confident in You as a leader to be a huge piece of solving that problem and I'm going to put some confidence and some trust in you and we're going to try some things.
50:14
And if you make mistakes and if I makes mistakes, that's okay.
We're going to be quick to correct them and we're going to learn and we're going to continue to grow and develop together if nothing else is heard in this entire episode but skin.you can capture that piece and mirror that in the way that you lead your team's guys that was strategy.
50:34
Communication 10. 01.
Well mean, that was picture-perfect on how to communicate with the team and ask them to follow you when you clearly are not the technical expert, that was beautiful.
When that is great leadership.
We talked a lot about humility and I know you value that to Rachel but that's a case study.
50:51
And like, what does it look like to leave with humility?
It's been willing to say that, like, every single one of us as Leaders has a gap or multiple.
And yet, I think it takes a huge amount of courage and self awareness to be able to say what you just said to add.
Online leader or a colleague apart, whatever you say you know what?
51:09
I don't know.
That was pretty cool.
Yeah.
And I think really what that allows is for you to be a multiplier.
And what I mean by this is like, really then you put a lot of the responsibility back on that leader to help solve the problem, right?
51:28
If it's going to happen, I have to be part of this solution, right?
Because there's not somebody above me or over me that It is going to be able to like cover this, or has it solved, right?
So I've got to be the solution here and I am the expert knowledge in this area, right?
51:48
So I'm going to have to solve this problem and then I'm going to have to take it to this leader and say, okay this is kind of what I'm coming up with, can we talk through it?
And what do you think?
And then as a leader you can say, yeah this is brilliant, let's run with it and thank you so much and then that it Hours that individual over and over and over and over.
52:08
And so, you don't have somebody at the top.
That is constantly putting downward pressure.
It's coming from the ground roots, and that leadership is coming up and then you can have more and more confidence in your people, right that they can solve problems.
Well, there's incredible power and what you're modeling there to ride because it's like you may be talking to that engineer or that mitigation manager or whatever you're acknowledging your own vulnerability, your own need for them.
52:35
It's modeling to them.
They inevitably have skill gaps, or they have like, an area of their work, that they're not as confident in her less experienced in.
So for them to go to another peer or their own downline employee team member and convey their need the same way.
52:51
You start to see that across the whole team where everybody feels confident, sharing their weaknesses and their needs with others who are stronger in those areas.
Wow.
Right.
There's a powerful culture there of humility that Performance.
Everybody.
53:07
Also, you're affirming the value.
They bring to the team as well in that same conversation two.
Right.
I would even petition on that that let's say using that same example, mitigation Department, a Recon department manager and you do have the answer ask anyways like because you can see from that experience, right?
53:26
You being that manager when the CEO or the owner of the company comes to you and says, hey engage with me here, help me solve this.
Help me come up with a plan that we can commit to To the level of empowerment, like, all the things you guys have just talked about is so powerful.
Well, can you manifest that in a downline technician by simply asking for their help?
53:46
Even though you may know the answer, right?
In the level of Engagement that you get from them, right?
They're valued their esteemed.
They see that they can contribute that's like succession planning, right?
Like there's a lot of power.
Yeah, I'm that example.
54:02
Yeah well and we did a Visionary course a workshop.
Too long ago and I am a huge proponent of vision airing and basically for anybody who hasn't taken that Workshop, first of all I recommend it.
You can go to I think either of our website and get to it.
54:18
But like the whole premise of that is having a very clear sensory Rich vision of where you're going, right?
Like and destination Finish Line as long as that is super clear.
Like I just wanted to preface that the I don't know or let's Solve this together type of thing does not correlate to that, right?
54:40
Like I am a huge believer that as a leader.
You should have a very clear picture about where the organization is going.
What I'm talking about is the gaps in the maybe how or the nuances of what it's going to take to get there.
54:56
Yeah and that is where like if you can create the big picture and the vision then you would be amazed at what your people can create.
To make that happen.
So an example of that for me is again, never run a tech company before never ran a customer success department.
55:15
But we have a manager, right?
And we have a very clear picture of where we're going.
And what I want to have happened out of this, which is like we have a lot of efficiencies that people understand customers get the help that they need immediately.
All of these kind of things that we want without being super people heavy, right?
55:33
Like we need a bunch of processes and In place that is going to help us to be efficient basically just creating that outline in this Vision.
This manager has been able to create amazing processes and systems like that are four times more effective than the other competitors in the space in terms of efficiency the number of bodies that we need and the MPS that's coming out of that.
55:58
So being able to create that vision and then be insane.
How you're going to get there?
I don't know.
I'm not going to tell you how to run this.
I don't know like Of the answers of best.
But what I do believe is in your ability to do this like, you were hired for this reason, your process-driven you're very knowledgeable in the space, you are customer-centric.
56:16
So I know that anything you're going to develop is going to be way better than what I could give you so go and he was able to build the thing that we needed.
You know.
Wow, that's so cool.
Rachel, I think there's a lot of gold nuggets in here from this conversation.
56:32
I'm excited to put this out and let other people hear this.
Thank.
You so much for being with us.
And for those people that are like wow who is this amazing leader?
And what's she working on?
Like where do you want us to send people?
Obviously accelerate restoration, software.com do either right?
Yep it's Excel restoration, software.com awesome.
56:51
And then anything else you want to tell our audience about forthcoming stuff with accelerate or other things that you guys are putting out any webinars upcoming that you want people participate in?
I think something really exciting that we've put out that we worked on is a lot of sop guides.
So if Trying to put some Sops into your organization and you don't know where to start, these are things that you can put in without technology.
57:12
They're pretty simple.
Their basic standard places that you can start from that then you can grow and develop from but even more powerful if you want to build them into your technology and have automations tied to them and things that just roll so that you have the standardization across the board.
57:32
So I think checking that out, we are growing and Scaling and doing some fun, and amazing things, and we're really trying to service contractors and what their needs are.
And the like pain points that I experienced as a contractor.
That's what we're fixing.
So excited about what's happening?
57:48
Well, thanks again for hanging out with us and I'm sure that will get you back on the roster sooner than later.
My friend, awesome.
It was so fun.
So fun to see you both.
Yeah, thanks Rachel.
All right, mister All right, everybody, he thinks for joining us for another episode of head heart and boots.
58:04
And if you're enjoying the show, he loved this episode.
Please, hit follow formerly known as subscribe.
Write us a review or share this episode with a friend, share it on LinkedIn, and share it, via text, whatever it all helps.
Thanks for listening.