0:00
Wow, how many of you have listened to the Head, Heart and Boots podcast?
I can't tell you that react how much that means to us.
Welcome back to the Head, Heart and Boots podcast.
I'm Chris.
And I'm Brandon, join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses we leave.
0:18
This new camera angle makes my arms look smaller than yours.
I'm noticing that and I really appreciate it.
I thought you did that on purpose, no?
I, I don't, I didn't and I, I am not happy with it.
Hey all, thanks so much for listening to the show.
Hey, if you're not already following, please do so and ultimately share, right?
0:35
Like the coolest currency that we have in terms of supporting this is share it with a friend, share it with somebody, a colleague, appear one of your downline team members.
Let them be able to take advantage of the information you're already leveraging in your favor.
And finally, guys, if you hear a show that really moves you, that really moves the needle, will you please leave us a review?
0:54
Those five star reviews help us a time.
Right on.
And listen, if you're trying to grow your business, you might consider checking out Floodlights Business Opportunity Audit.
It's free, we provided at no charge.
It's actually what we use to assess new clients as they come in.
1:10
It's 110 point assessment for your business and we've now decided to give access to the general public for it.
So go and take our business opportunity audit at floodlightgrp.com.
It's going to help you identify the biggest gaps and opportunities in your business right now.
And at the end, it'll assign you a health score to let you know exactly where your business stands right now.
1:30
So go check it out floodlightgrp.com/audit and take the BOA.
It's a great way to get a pulse on your business.
Well amigo, how you doing man?
I'm doing really good.
I had a very good morning.
I end up hunting an earlier morning meeting I had scheduled sort of like stupidly, right?
1:49
It's the day after 4th of July.
We were out fireworks at our friend's house until midnight.
But fortunately my counterpart that I was having a meeting with was very friendly about it.
And so I got to have a slow morning with with Kara and honestly is one of the best things for me.
2:08
Like here's my perfect morning routine.
My perfect morning routine is I get up roughly 5/15, 5:20.
I go make an electrolyte water.
I put the powder in the glass, put some ice in, fill up the big jar like the Mason jar with water.
2:24
I go out to the sauna, 20 minutes in the sauna, 3 minutes in the cold plunge.
I stand around, I move around on my deck while I reheat in the morning sun and then I go have coffee with my wife.
And then depending on how much bandwidth I have that morning, I'll have breakfast after that and then head to the office like that.
2:40
That is my perfect morning right there.
Yeah, yeah.
It's like, how many mornings do you get that though?
Not enough.
But it's just like, I mean, I struggle with that sometimes, right?
Because I also find that if I go to the gym in the morning instead of in the afternoon, that also lends itself toward a really good day.
2:58
So I tend to think like, OK, I can't do it all all at once.
I think at some point in another generation of the business, you know, I feel like that would be a good priority for me.
It's like if I could have my formal meetings not start until say 10:00 AM, you know, I, I feel like I'm best formatted for early morning self management, like a 3:50 schedule as an owner and like doing owner things and run and, and owning and running a company would be like an ideal schedule for me into perpetuity.
3:30
You know, like get up in the morning, have connection time with family, connection time with myself, spend some time in the sauna, do my things, go exercise.
And then I'm at 100% and I'm, I'm dialed, I, I'm ready to engage.
But of course we're not that.
That's not the season of, that's not the season we're in yet, you know?
3:50
No, Yeah, yeah, I get it though.
I, I mean the morning routine thing is I think it is important.
I think we can turn it into another version of our daily To Do List, which can be, I think at times Rob its value.
But but there is something to be said about starting intentionally and then reaping the benefit of that kind of through throughout the rest of the day.
4:11
For sure, man, for sure.
Yeah, I've I've been on a kick where I'm doing a little bit more morning exercise and running and there is value of doing it first thing in the morning versus waiting till the afternoon.
One.
I it seems like I'm more consistent actually executing.
4:26
But I think the other thing is I just get some of the benefits throughout my work day.
That helped quite a bit.
But yeah, Speaking of that, man, you know, topic wise, obviously the last couple days you had referenced that you're wrestling with some stuff.
And I thought, you know, we're doing a little Rd. show, right?
4:43
You and I are traveling individually for the holidays, family for the forest, and I just wanted to see if you had wherewithal to go through that topic a bit and see what we could ultimately share with our audience as you wrestle with whatever the last several days have looked like.
Are you cool to do that?
4:59
Yeah, Yeah, I am.
You know, I feel like I think there's all these stages of life, right.
And last night I was reflecting on just how good of a life I feel like Kara and I have been able to put together over the last few years.
And when I say good of a life, like where our life's at right now.
5:15
And, you know, it's something like when when my wife and I will hug or kiss, like we have those moments.
Like sometimes I'll just saw.
I'll just kind of say that really quietly.
I'm like, man, we have a good life, you know, and we'll say that to each other sometimes.
And it's just, it's just this affirmation that like right now is really good.
5:35
I feel like I've spent a lot of my life yearning or like, because I, I tend, I'm built like a visionary, like I'm always thinking about what could be.
But there's always this should be component that's been built into it, like comparison making between where others are AT.
5:52
And because I think that comes from this competitive spirit that's also in me of seeing others achievements and thinking I can do that and I should do.
And then it becomes, and I should like I should be able to, I should have already like I should be where they are, you know what I'm saying?
6:09
And, and I get this future orientation, that one, it drives me, but then I also find it also feeds this depression that sometimes I can, I can fall into, you know, and it's funny, the depression is, is rarely about the business or achievements.
6:27
It's like it's about my personal connections and with my family, my kids and my wife.
And where I think what it is, is that the way I described it to my wife the other morning was I just feel like a constant.
I'm constantly putting out, like constantly give.
6:46
And of course, this is my ego.
This is the other thing I recognize is that it's me telling myself I deserve, I'm entitled to, you know, of all the things I did like.
And so I can, I can get in this headspace where I'll have a series of interactions with my kids where I just feel like I'm, I'm just, I'm constantly giving and putting out like I'm, I'm trying to be present.
7:08
I'm trying to be a good dad.
I feel like I'm being really intentional with kind of my thought life, going home to my family and stuff like that and just putting in the work and putting, you know, just giving, giving the effort of, of really trying to be present and, you know, give money and all the things that are involved with being married and having children.
7:27
Yeah.
And just feeling overwhelmed, like it's kind of cyclically, I mean, lately it feels like it's every two or three weeks, maybe once a month, I fall into this headspace of God, who's taking care of me lately, you know?
Yeah.
7:43
It's funny how I think that that's probably the like, if we're honest with ourselves, I feel like as a business owner, that's probably a state that we exist in often, especially if you're a team that's got enough, a fairly sizable team where you're really starting to have quite a bit of employee engagement, right?
8:00
Just out of kind of sheer numbers where you live in a pretty consistent space, I would say where intentions are, right, right.
Like, I don't, we just don't come across very many owners that are intentionally wicked, right?
Like we make mistakes, but they're always, they normally come from the right intention.
8:18
They normally come from the right purpose, the right place.
And it does feel often as a business owner, as an employer, where you're in the same position where there's this constantly giving, you're constantly thinking about, OK, pay raises, pay conditions, packages, what am I doing to provide?
8:36
Make concessions, right?
Bend a little bit with rules and and accountability because we're trying to be cognizant to the relationship and flex to the needs of our people.
And at the same time, it can feel as if a lot of the times as a business owner, that stuff just falls on deaf ears.
8:55
Like, like the ad, there's always four more asks in the alleyway waiting to take your attention versus staff lined up to tell you how thankful they are for everything you've done and provided for them.
Right?
Like, I think that's a space that we probably as entrepreneurs exist in often as well.
9:12
That to me parallels I think what you're saying from a personal, you know, family oriented perspective.
Yeah, yeah.
Somehow like it feels more personal when it comes to those family connections, right?
Because I think I've talked about this before, like when we, when we gave that keynote, the heart of the matter, you know, we were just talking about how, you know, in my, in my, in my story that I share there, just how there's this and so much effort kind of creating a, some, some kind of like a professional identity, you know what I mean?
9:45
That you maintain.
And I feel like as I've gotten older, you and I've talked about this a lot.
Like I've, I've been really working hard to sort of dismantle that professional identity and just be a single person and just try to really occupy the same headspace and, and posture as I do at, with work and our clients and, and our team, as I do with my, my wife, my kids and my friends and everything else.
10:08
So I can become more integrated.
I remember early in my life though, right?
I was really good at sort of hitting the achievement buttons and stuff to get the accolades from clients, business colleagues and all the things.
And it would kind of fill my cup.
10:25
But then I'd come home to my kids and my wife, right?
And they're the ones who really, they're the ones who really know me, you know, like, like they're the ones I come home and I've and I've spent myself just cultivating this professional life and this career and this this identity that other people know me by.
10:44
And then I let my hair down.
And then, you know, my frustration often comes out and, you know, all the things and, and then the way that my kids and my wife react to respond to me feels like the real judgement of who I am.
You, you know what I mean?
11:00
Like, I, I just, I, there was a lot of times where, and rightfully so, like my wife, I, I go home and, you know, I, I drive past my billboards with my face on it, You know, I driving back from my office and, you know, there's some level inside where, especially if I had a like the business had a good day.
11:18
I, I there, there's a part of me that kind of feels like hot shit.
And then I come home and often times in those same days, my wife's like, you know what?
I'm, yeah, I'm not impressed, Right.
Anyway, I mean, that's, that's, that's more yesteryears.
I feel like, in terms of how my headspace operated, you know, I think about my State Farm days in particular.
11:41
But there is a reality to that where it's like the people closest to us know us the best.
And when when they don't react a certain way or whatever, it just, it feels more personal, you know, and I feel like it, yeah.
And so, and I've got two teenagers in the now and they need different things from me.
11:59
And in in some ways they're way more independent and other ways their needs seem a lot heavier and bigger in terms of emotional and financial and you know, all that stuff.
And man, I just like you, you asked about the last few days as I know I messaged you and I'm like, man, I've just been in a little bit of a depression fog where it's been really hard to get the best out of myself at the office and in my meetings and stuff like that.
12:24
And I, and I think it's just, I was just in that space of man, I feel like I'm, I just feel like I'm putting out, putting out, putting out, putting out.
And when I'm asking for things, you know, whether it be my son finally mowing the lawn like we agreed to like literally years ago.
12:44
This is one of your single tasks, bro.
And like, I'm sure some people listening can relate when like my kids, he's a really good kid and his priority is not being a high functioning member of our household and our family right now.
13:00
His his priority is, you know, figuring out his own life, being with his friends, you know, like doing all those things.
And I know that.
And it's like I, I should, I'm like, you know, he's freaking 16.
It doesn't mean he shouldn't have responsibilities.
And it's not a reflection on me.
13:18
And.
Yet and yet just there's this, this feeling that's just this starts to take over of, you know, and I was getting caught up in that.
So.
You know, it's, it's a combination of things that helped me kind of get loose to that.
13:34
But when did we have that conversation?
I mean, it feels weird because it's a holiday ride.
It's Friday today.
It feels like it's Saturday or Sunday.
But yeah.
So it's Monday, Tuesday.
Yeah.
So Wednesday morning, a friend, I don't know if it was a friend's Instagram or if it was a conversation that I had previously had with a friend.
13:52
And he was just talking about this mantra that sometimes he says like in his morning quiet time, it's just, Oh no, I know what it is.
There's this Larry Janeski, I shared this with you, an album.
Larry Janeski is a is a general contractor entrepreneur, owns a couple other service companies.
14:14
It's kind of famous in the remodeler.
He's like one of those Guru Lee.
He's kind of like Tommy Mellow, right?
Is the roofing guy, Is he the garage door guy or something?
Anyway, the.
Garage door guy.
Yeah, yeah, he's like a Tommy Mellow, but in the home remodeler industry.
14:30
One of my one of my buddies is a remodeler and is really into his stuff and and just kind of uses some of his material as a morning meditation and he'll also listen to it with his young boys.
Anyway, he has this whole album and it's really good.
So for people listening the music, have you listened to it yet dude?
14:48
No, OK.
The music that it's set to.
So it's kind of like a spoken word album and, and you can kind of think of it as like if any of you've heard recordings of Tony Robbins, you, you can feel a little bit cheesy and hard to kind of settle into and really take the material for what it is.
15:05
But God, as I've been getting older, I find a lot of value in that kind of stuff.
It's like if I can get past like my ego can get past the cheesiness of some of it and I can really just focus in on the words.
It's really useful.
And anyways, this Larry Janeski album, it's called Masterpiece and you can find it on Spotify and Apple Music and all the things.
15:26
And there's this one line in one of the tracks where he just, he talks about every day he's and it's a reminder like all of us kind of know this, but he's like every day is a new beginning.
It's a new life.
Yeah, yeah.
And I just kind of have this from that.
I just kind of have this meditation every now and then I'll be reminded of and I'll do it when I'm in the sauna where it's just new day, new life, new day, new life.
15:49
But I'm so like our egos.
Eckhart Tolle in the book A New Earth, which I just love.
And it's been really helpful for me.
Is he?
He just talks about how our egos are always pointing forward or backward.
Our egos cannot be present in the now and it's what it creates so much problems for us in our relationships.
16:09
And the way we approach our work and everything else is that our egos are always pulling us into the future.
We're always pulling us into the past and then driving our thoughts and fixating our thoughts on either going to the past about what happened to us and putting us into a victim mindset or harkening back because we're in pain into better days and fixating on those days gone by, right?
16:34
Or what should be what we want and what, what we desire and just pulling us into the future, right?
And, and a lot of suffering is created in that space.
And so anyway, on, on Wednesday morning, I was just in the sauna and the cold plunge.
And that was, that was kind of the mantra.
16:49
And I, I felt, it felt like it was really helpful to kind of re centre me and pull me out of that funk and Get Me Out of the cloud of, of darkness that I felt like I was in the first couple days of the week.
So that's what's been going on.
And then, you know, that it, it just continues.
17:06
You, you made a comment to me when, when I texted you that you said, you know, you're probably still processing your dad's death, you know, and you know, I think that's true.
You know, I, I think I, I didn't know what to expect with my dad's death.
Like there are so many things about the experience of being able to be there when he died and that, that I, it felt so healthy and I felt a lot of closure at, at the time, the month or so leading up to his memorial, you know, so many people were asking me how I was doing and how I was feeling.
17:37
And I, and honestly, I wasn't, I wasn't terribly sad.
Like I was having these moments where I, my instinct was to call my dad.
I still have that.
In fact, yesterday I, I had a moment where I'm like, God, I normally right now I would call my dad and I'd chat about this thing with my dad.
Yeah.
17:52
And so that was hard, or I don't know if it was hard.
It was just one of those.
Yeah, just recognizing.
Yeah, there's this.
There's a void there, you know, And so I think that adds weight.
I think you're right.
I think that's amplified a lot of the like, those feelings of kind of being depressed or feeling unappreciated.
18:11
I, you know, when I would feel that way in the last few years, I'd go through a cycle like that.
I'd call my dad.
And my dad could relate, you know, And I think, yeah, for sure.
I feel like most men can relate, but we don't want to sound like a bitch, you know, we don't, we don't, we don't, we don't want to be a we don't want to be a bitch.
18:28
You know, I think that's part of our culture is that men are supposed to be quiet in our suffering, you know, and I think in some ways there's wisdom in that.
Like I don't think we have to air that out all the time.
And yet I don't, I don't think in our culture, men have a place to air that out with very as on like a like a rhythm of life where we howl at the moon and, and we get together and we would be kind of let go of that stuff or move through that stuff.
18:57
And and so for me, like I would just, I would, I would whine and bitch to my dad about, hey, I just feel like God, everybody's taking from me.
And, and just, and, and when I would talk to him, he's like, OK, I get, he's like, I get it.
Yeah, yeah, I felt like that.
19:14
And of course I was the source of that.
At one point.
I was the 16 year old or I was the always asking for money or needing this or needing problem solving around that or, you know, and, and, and of course I know it's just a, it's a fundamental part of marriage too.
19:29
And my dad had been through that.
And so I think all those things were going on, man. liftify.com/blood Light.
You've heard Brandon and I talk a bunch of times about the importance of Google reviews, maybe even heard our episode with Zach Garrett, the CEO and founder.
19:46
Recency, consistency, two of the most important things when it comes to maximizing the benefit from your Google reviews.
Why not use an outside partner?
Liftify is targeting 20 to 25% conversion, right?
So if you do 1000 jobs a year, you ought to be adding right now 200 to 250 reviews a year, every single year.
20:06
If you're not doing that, you owe it to yourself to get a free demo from liftify.com.
See their system, see how it works, see how affordable it is.
I promise you, you'll thank us.
Liftify.com forward slash.
Blood light, you know, we spend a lot of money and a lot of attention trying to get that first call.
20:24
And one of the things that we do once it happens is sometimes we leave it to chance, right?
Who picks up the phone?
How do they respond?
How do they walk that client into a relationship with us?
Well, one of the benefits of partnering with a team like Answer force.com is we can systemize that.
We can make it more consistent.
20:40
We can also have backup for when our teams need that help, right?
Somebody goes on vacation, somebody's out sick, you know, we get a storm surge, we get cat event.
All sorts of things can have an impact on how we receive that client.
But the most important thing is they need to know that they've chosen the right team.
20:57
And so answerforce.com can support you be a bolt on partner to help you consistently produce an awesome onboarding experience with that first call with your client.
So answerforce.com/bloodlife.
That's great.
CNR Magazine.
21:13
We're friends with all the folks at CNR, Michelle and her team, they do a great job of keeping their ear to the ground and reporting all the important information from our industry, right?
You want to stay up on all the M&A activity and what the latest best practices are for selling your company successfully, right?
She's got that great articles about all the four quadrants of our business, right?
21:32
CNR is constantly pushing out great material and leveraging great writers and subject matter experts in our industry.
It is the water cooler of our industry.
If you're not subscribed, go to cnrmagazine.com.
Follow them on LinkedIn.
Follow Michelle on LinkedIn.
21:49
Trust us, if you're trying to stay on top of everything happened in the industry, your best destination is cnrmagazine.com.
You guys, many of you have already heard about Actionable Insights and the training and the technical expertise that they bring to the industry.
But how many of you are already leveraging the actionable Insights profile for Exactomy?
22:09
That's the game changer.
It's essentially an AI tool that's walking alongside of you as you write your estimate, bringing things to your attention that should be added that could be considered all of them.
Items that increase our profitability, increase the effectiveness and the consistency of that scope.
22:27
And it can do anything from helping a new team member assimilate as some estimating best practices.
And it also helps the grizzled vets add back that few percent that we've just forgot over time.
So Actionable Insights, get insights.org forward slash floodlight and take a look at what the Actionable insights exactimate profile could be doing for you and your team.
22:50
That's the layers, right?
Like I, I, we've been thinking about this actually coincidentally quite a bit because, you know, Wayne and I have been doing some, some leadership stuff with some of the teams He's been leading a lot of it, which has been really kind of maybe a discussion in and of itself in terms of how empowering that is and how it's been really fun to watch him take a more leader base seat and some of that curriculum delivery because he's just so talented.
23:14
I think as part of that, you know, when we were doing these leadership training modules for some of our teams, you know, we, we ended up breaking the curriculum up into these kind of three phases of lead oneself, lead others leading up as kind of a reference or a nod to Jocko's, you know, leading up the chain of command.
23:30
And one of the things that relevant kind of a theme that that holds true no matter what phase of content that we're in in regard to the self, others and up is this, this need to be really focused on awareness in the moment.
23:47
Because when when we're not present in the moment, it removes some of the tools that we have in our tool kit, right?
To to maintain a good relationship to what and how we're feeling and how it's impacting those around us.
And then obviously the types of conversations, the direction we take conversations with our people.
24:06
And I think that that's part of what you're talking about is that when we can take inventory and I think not a sign of value, but just think first from this place of, you know, avoid right, wrong or indifference and just say this is a thing right now, Like this thing's at play, this relationship is at play.
24:26
This, this vibe I have because of circumstances in my life at home around the business and strategic partnerships, wherever they may lie, they're affecting how I'm feeling and carrying myself right now.
And then inevitably then that will have an impact on my conversations today, later this afternoon, tomorrow morning.
24:47
And if we're not acutely aware and dialed in and present to these things are happening, they're having an effect on me.
Where am I going mentally right now?
Am I, am I looking in the past and, and am I stuck on something that I wish that could have happened, that that didn't happen right?
25:06
Like where am I right now mentally?
And is there a way for me then to, to become more present to the moment and allow that then to change the way that I'm going to interact or the way that I'm thinking about the situation or feel about the situation?
I think it's that's kind of part of what you're doing right now.
25:22
I think it, it's, there's not like an answer per SE.
It's just the fact that when these things come up, you're reflecting and pausing in it.
You're not just being a zombie and allowing the emotion to drive your behavior with no conscious thought, no after action review, no look in the mirror.
25:39
Was that is this right?
Should I be doing, you know what I mean?
Does that make sense?
It kind of went off a little bit, but I think I think that's one of the things I admire about you that that is, I don't know that we ever land the plane on what's the right course of action.
The only thing I can lead into is the right course of action is just being conscientious of the fact that this shit is having an effect and and with that, I can do something with it.
26:03
You know what I mean?
Well, I think the other piece too, that's become more and more important to me, I guess, or a part of the solution is, is, yeah, I have to.
The more quickly I guess I'm able to recognize what's going on inside me and be able to kind of put some words or definition to it of, you know what, what is driving this feeling?
26:25
Where's this coming from?
Why, why, why am I feeling this way?
I think it's also become important.
You know, I've talked about this a number of times, like in my marriage in particular, I think one of the things that my wife and I have recommitted our self to is honesty in really, really, really trying to tell the truth without like in a gentle way.
26:47
But but I think the mistake that we made for a lot of our marriage is we were sort of aware of where the minefields lie.
And we would be honest in so far as we weren't potentially approaching a mine.
27:03
And and then we would sort of adeptly navigate around the mine and sort of reference the mine, you know, but we wouldn't, we would avoid the explosions.
And and I and I think it probably did our marriage a lot of harm actually by over those years or I guess maybe, yeah, I think we did do some harm in that.
27:25
But I think we also just avoided some growth and connection that we could have had because we found it difficult to be 100% honest with each other.
And we both had different minefields that we were navigating, you know, with the other.
And so like, part of the resolve was me feeling the freedom to in so much is like part of the, the struggle I was having internally was how just I feel like the reciprocity between my wife and I, you know, over the whatever the more recent period of time was of me feeling God, I'm putting out, I'm putting out, I'm putting out and, and, and not getting a lot of return and just being able to verbalize that to her.
28:03
And you know, to her credit, she's at a point now where she can hear that and doesn't get this doesn't turn into an explosion, you know what I mean?
Like that doesn't turn into a mind going off and, and both of us like losing a leg in the process, you know, where she's able to just hear it and hear what I'm saying and connect to it.
28:23
And, you know, a lot of times we have to kind of wrestle through a little bit of emotion.
But but we can, we can, we can, I can get it out.
And the same thing with her, like there's times like actually yesterday, yesterday on the holiday, like Kara had a had a thing come up for her.
28:39
We had a real emotional morning and, and ultimately just process through it together and we're able to talk through it.
And it was, I feel like in every time we do that, by the end of it, we're better off.
But sometimes it feels like we're fire walking in the process and it's this and it's this really sort of intense conversation.
29:01
But once we move through it, it's like we actually moved through that thing and the thing's not a thing anymore.
And that, that was another part of this, this kind of depression fog was, is that I, I just, I had to, I had to talk with Kara about it.
And, and I actually plan because I have some time with the kids this week and I actually plan on talking to them about not.
29:22
And, and again, it's not in an accusational way.
It's just like, hey, this is how I'm feeling.
This is the story in my head.
This is the thing that's that's been kind of going on inside me and, and I and I want to share it with you and you can do whatever you need to with it.
But this is what's been going on for me.
And so I'm planning to have that same conversation with my, my two older kids this weekend when we have time.
29:42
And that feels like an important part of, I don't know, just the last year or so in particular of trying to live more.
Honestly, it's messy sometimes and, but I feel like I spent the first me and my wife and I really spent the 1st probably 15 years of our marriage doing this dance of dancing around certain subjects and, and stuff, just trying to avoid the just the messiness of marriage.
30:12
And in the same and in the same process, like having a really messy, like up and down marriage, you know, and and so I don't know, that's just been kind of a revelation to me the last several years is I don't think you can avoid the ugliness.
30:29
Yeah, I just, I just don't think you can man an area of life.
Yeah, it's certainly not sustainably, no.
Right.
It's funny what you were talking about that like that whole land mine scenario and it, it reminds me of like, you know, creating solutions versus fighting fires.
30:45
The reality of it is, is you may have like kind of identified that landmine was there and walked around it, but what happens when our units got to come back through that territory, right?
Because inevitably our life is this pattern of zigzagging back and forth between these locations and these cycles of development.
31:03
It's like, inevitably, dude, you're going to have to retrace some states, some steps, like you're going to end up back in that minefield.
And so I think part of what you're saying is when we, when we take the time to sit in that topic and wrestle with it, create a solution or a better understanding and we remove it, well, that's one last mind for us to step in again on our return trip, right, which we know is inevitably coming.
31:25
Better to throw some grenades in the field in front of you and get your eyebrows stitched, right?
Yeah.
And clear the field, you know?
Yeah, yeah, Yeah.
It just feels important.
And.
And I think in many ways, dude, some of the greatest moments of truth that you and I have had as business partners have been difficult and uncomfortable.
31:44
You know, I just don't think any relationship grows and thrives without honesty, like real honesty.
Because I think otherwise you're always sort of, you're always sort of reading a person's body language and you kind of know something's not quite right, but but you're not digging into it.
32:05
And it affects how you interact with somebody.
We've talked about this before with employees, it's the same.
It's all the same.
It's like when you've got a problem with an employee, eventually you're, you're going to start treating them differently and they're going to know it, They feel it, You know, like every single one of us has felt that there's a little bit of subtle avoidance.
32:26
You know, you're, you start to lose eye contact with them when you pass them in the hall because there's, you know, something you're frustrated with or disappointed in or whatever.
And, and, and for whatever reason, you decide to just sort of let it, let it simmer and fester instead of just dealing with it.
32:41
And eventually it really, it changes the relationship and, and it becomes a problem.
And so any who, well, I'm, I'm starting to feel a little self-conscious, like a little naked.
I think this is maybe a good time for us to land the plane and allow me to put some clothes back on and, you know, feel like a professional again.
33:02
You know, I think I think there's sometimes hard side whether or not we air some of these episodes, right?
So it's just constant pursuit of value, like is there real value here?
And I think one of the commitments that you and I made was look, we're we said we're going to talk about the whole restore.
There's going to be times where there's a tactical element to what we're talking about.
33:20
There's going to be times where it's, you know, it's more methodical in nature.
And I think there's just moments where it's totally relevant for us to discuss the mindset or the pitfalls of friction points that we're actively engaged in in the moment.
Because the reality of it is we're not alone.
33:36
We're not the only ones having this kind of experience.
There's no doubt in my mind on the backs of holidays that that many people this week, you know, dealt with similar types of experience, relationship dynamic, like we're just not alone.
So I think just this is just another layer of us just being committed to, hey, we're going to throw this stuff out there.
33:56
We do believe it's relevant.
We do believe it's we're, we're not the only people that face these things.
And the value statement's ultimately up for a listener to decide, yeah, this message was for me today or this is something I'm wrestling with this week.
So how about lands?
How it lands, man, You know.
34:11
Yeah, we admit to transparency, I guess.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, here let me.
That's so funny, man.
Here's a hard pivot.
All right, folks.
So if you enjoy this show, if you enjoyed the show and you you love listening to Head Heart and boots, there's there's two ways that you can thank us.
34:30
I love it there's.
Two ways that you can thank us.
Share the.
Show with friends, right, Follow the show.
And then if you've been looking for a consultant that can help you process all of your personal depression and individual student, no, I'm just kidding.
34:45
If you're looking to grow and you want to, you're looking for a partner that can help you build your enterprise value.
Prepare for a sale, a a battle buddy, a trench partner to walk with you and your team as you scale and and reach for kind of the next horizon in your business.
35:02
Maybe you're relatively new to the industry.
This is your first rodeo, but you understand the value of having a an outside partner.
The best place to start is with our business opportunity audit.
It's going to force you to think through areas of your business that maybe you haven't been nooks and crannies of your business that are important, but you haven't been paying attention to.
35:21
And it'll tee up a really value added conversation with our team to find out legitimately if if a consulting relationship is the right thing for you right now.
So start with the business opportunity audit.
It's really easy to find floodlightgrp.com forward slash auditthatsfloodlightgroup.com/audit.
35:42
Once you fill it out, our team will get notified.
We'll get on the phone, we'll have what we call an integration call and it's not a sales pitch.
It's a review of the audit results.
And from our experience as a team identifying where are some, some potential health like red flags health wise, where, where are some opportunities for you to shore up your business, stabilize your business, create more health?
36:07
And then also where, where's the low hanging fruit in terms of opportunity for growth?
And we'll talk through that.
And then if ultimately you want somebody to walk with you through that process, that's where we talk about a consulting relationship.
But whether or not you end up hiring us as consultants, we we've heard from a number of people that there's value in taking the 15 or 20 minutes to go through the audit.
36:25
So check that out.
We call it the Boa business opportunity audit.
Again, thank you for listening.
It's and frankly, dude, it's kind of, it's kind of humbling, man.
We did, we started this what, 130 some episodes ago and we felt so much imposter syndrome.
36:43
Like we felt like such, I don't know, it was just so weird the 1st 10 episodes and here we are 80,000 or so downloads and you know, it feels like our beard and mustache are all over the Internet and feels weird man.
Of getting grayer, getting grayer.
36:59
Two plus years of, of these conversations and it's, and, and it's just really gratifying.
We still we, we continue to get text messages and stuff from folks about the shows and tumbling.
And it's, it's really encouraging.
Like it's, it's fun to put something out in the world and, and have people care about it and get value from it.
37:19
So anyways, till next time everybody, thanks for listening.
Yeah, we'll see you.
All right, everybody.
Hey, thanks for joining us for another episode of Head, Heart and Boots.
And.
If you're enjoying the show or you love this episode, please hit follow, formerly known as subscribe, write us a review or share this episode with a friend, Share it on LinkedIn, share it via text, whatever.
37:42
It all helps.
Thanks for listening.