0:00
Peggy morning, man.
You know what people missed before we started recording?
Was you verifying, I guess their fangs, the right word that it's your job to tell me what to do.
Yeah, so that's good.
I'm glad we're clear on that because now I feel like only when necessary, it just happens to be necessary on the regular.
0:16
Yes, I feel like the future of my continued development now is so much clearer.
It's hinging on my ability to tell you what to do.
Yeah.
Now I can blame you essentially for the outcome but I'll do my best.
Okay guys, let's get into our Our show today, my friend, and we've got a great guest, Jeff Moore president of ATI.
0:34
Yeah, part of the Moore family.
This was really our chance to get to know him.
Yeah.
And of course, when we say that name, a lot of people are like, well, of course, everybody knows about a TI and most people are familiar with the Moors.
I mean, it's a pretty extraordinary success story like create American success story.
0:51
It's really, really fun.
Here in some of his background and we go to some places in his story that I don't know if Jeff's publicly shared some of the things that Into in this, I think we were really not surprised shocked, but we just thought it was really cool, how transparent and candid and just easy to talk to Jeff is very relatable and and down-to-earth and I guess I shouldn't expect it any different but we get into kind of his story and some of the family's story and some behind the scenes stuff we talk about what it's like to have a family company that's multiple hundreds of millions of dollars.
1:29
Dollars and some of that origin story and some of the stuff they've learned and figured out the hard way, you know, as they've gone, I was probably most struck by his humility.
Yeah, you know, is a major thing, I think there's a lot, I think a lot of us in the industry.
1:45
Really admire a TI and with the more families Dawn.
And so we come into the conversation which just a tremendous amount of admiration and respect and all add in, just his humility and willingness to share the mishaps and the struggles.
And hey, Good at this.
2:00
I'm not good at that.
You know, just some of that rule open sharing was really fun and reliable to see.
And then, and then he kind of kicks into a whole new gear when we begin talking more about riaa.
And just to clarify here, guys, like it's not an riaa pitch.
And however, he does a really great job of providing some real Clarity around the opportunity with riaa and what, that means to our industry, on the necessity, and I get it.
2:27
And I think you and I have really got turned Onto it by him.
It's like yeah it if we're going to be successful as an industry really establishing our trade as a real true recognize tradecraft, we have to be aligned.
We have to have a common voice, it doesn't mean we all have to disagree.
2:43
We're going to have things we wrestle over, but I just love his perspective and he is fired up and passionate and you get you get the sense from a guy like Jeff when he zeroes in on something, he's committed to it.
Yeah.
So there there's a rising wave happening around.
2:59
Riaa that That is exciting.
You and I so much so that we're going to be at the conference for the first time this year.
We're really stoked.
Yeah about that.
Yeah, we're gonna bring head heart and boots to the The riaa Experience there in Florida, so if whatever.
Anyway, there's our little pitch.
Yeah, we'll soapbox about, you should come to our ia2 and come hang out with us.
3:17
That's right.
All right dude.
Let's get into this.
Get into it.
All right.
Welcome Back To The Head heart and Boots podcast.
I'm Chris and I'm Brandon.
3:32
Join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses we leave this industry.
Hey man, we got a special guest today, don't we?
We do.
We do.
So, hey everybody.
We're here with Jeff Moore president of ATI board member at riaa.
3:50
Probably has a bunch of other titles were unaware of but we We've got an interesting conversation teed up with Jeff, so it's super excited to have him.
But before we get into that, we got some sponsors to thank.
So see in our magazine, you guys heard us talk about him.
We're advertisers and seeing our, and it's been good for our business.
4:09
So lifted our podcast or listenership and it's driven clients to us.
It's been awesome.
Michelle and her team, she's building a world-class team over there and it's obvious, they are the premier publication for our industry.
It's been fun to watch her grow.
4:24
And I mean, the articles I was just reading through the March April Edition.
It's a chock full of awesome stuff and there's an article by Yours Truly as well.
So, I was fun.
Seeing your not biased.
It was fun.
Seeing my name in print, I'm not going to lie, right?
It's always sort of fun little thing, you know?
4:40
But yeah if you're not a subscriber yet to see an army, what are you waiting for, right?
I mean, this, this is the industry journal to know what's going on here, but all the latest m&a activity, what are the big companies doing?
What can we learn from them?
Right, it's good stuff.
Do you read see in our Jeff?
If I do, it's funny, I just got the recent article.
4:56
I was under a corporate office yesterday, we got a box because I make sure all of our managers project directors, estimators get copies, or also an Advertiser, but honestly, it's the only printed piece that I read in the industry and I've been reading it for as long as I can remember.
So yeah, for those of you that don't subscribe, not only subscribe for yourself, but any of your key employees as well.
5:17
I love that spot on.
All right, that's good.
So lift if I obviously our boys at Garrett over at lift if I.com Listen, all of us are trying to find and leverage.
Any way that we can to increase SEO to increase that organic search.
5:32
Any of us doing into the PPC side of things.
It's expensive for us to try to lock in certain key words.
And most markets it's really challenging your spend a lot of money.
One of the most powerful tools and resources that we see right now is just Google clamoring for those live relevant and active reviews.
5:51
Those five star reviews tons of organic From it, we get a ton of prioritization in the search algorithms with Google, because you're getting consistent reviews on a regular basis, and they're fresh and their new, the struggle.
We all have those.
6:06
How do you get them?
Consistently, sometimes the teams focused on it.
Sometimes we're not sometimes our systems working in our behalf, and sometimes it's not lift.
If I.com completely automated, their participation rates, they're getting north of 20, 25 percent, which Chris, and I have not seen that most This patient we season that single digits or 20 or 25 percent return on engagement is stupid.
6:30
Good.
And for any of us, we look at our companies right now.
I mean, do the math.
You do a few hundred losses in a year, for some of us, it's significantly more than that, you're talking about a ton of five star review, traffic, that's getting generated on a regular basis and it's completely fire-and-forget.
6:49
So lift five.com forward slash floodlight.
There's some opportunities there to onboard that.
I'm really take advantage of the organic lift.
All right, Jeff Moore, let's get into this, you know, Brandon and I were talking about okay, what direction we want to take Jeff?
I know you've got some things that you want to talk about the riaa.
They are moving and shaking and doing some interesting new things.
7:06
But before that I thought, gosh, I'd really love to know a little bit more about you, man, you know, is the president of the company.
It'd be interesting.
I think for a lot of us to understand a little bit more about that role as president, you know, because we have, we have a lot of consolidation happening in Industry with a lot of CEOs of companies that have They've grown, 30, 40, 50, 60, employee companies, and then they've been in this em, a run.
7:30
Now, all of a sudden they're involved in a company that's 150. 250, 400 employees and their roles are shifting.
So there's people that are like that President title thing.
A lot of people don't know exactly what do you do as president.
So I think it'd be interesting for you to share a little about that but more.
7:45
So how'd you get into this?
Ma track.
You have other siblings in the business.
When did you know that?
That was your path.
And did you choose it?
Or did somebody push you in?
Oh, hey, Jeff you go do MMA.
Like, could you unpack a little bit about your role and how all that came about?
First of all, Brian and Chris, thanks for having me on the show?
8:02
Yeah.
I mean, I guess to start off with, you know, how to get into this, this MMA world.
I don't know that we clicked a button or anything.
I think it just naturally happened.
I'm obviously, I'm on the board at our a now is my second run at the board.
I was on the board eight to ten years ago.
8:18
So I've always been I'd say more closely aligned with restored.
Vendor Partners, probably more so than even my siblings.
And so, I've always kind of run in that realm.
I've always been friends with my competitors.
I remember when we did our deal with private Equity, one of the things I had talked to them about us.
8:37
We were going down, this path was, I was talking to them about other restorers, and there was a few, some of them really large in the industry, or I'd actually I've been friends with them for 10. 15 years.
I've been to their houses, they met their wives and their children.
Just friendly competitors.
One of them, I actually remember I met at my Our class.
8:54
And so I did a lot of Advanced Training and so I met a lot of people in the industry and as we were talking to private Equity, I think they kind of shine the light on just knowledge of other restorers was pretty powerful and this could be a role that you can play in.
Because, at the time, honestly, I was managing sales and marketing for the company, which I no longer do.
9:14
And so, I kind of moved into this acquisition or role that before private Equity.
It didn't exist.
We weren't buying companies.
We ours our risk tolerance was nothing.
Is one of the reasons we went down.
Path.
And I think just with the relationships, I had that I had built going through classes, supporting the industry being on, the are a are just relationships.
9:33
I've forged over time and I think it just organically naturally occurred.
And honestly if you had a told me I was I'd be doing this three years ago.
I would have thought you were crazy because I was running with clients and, you know, elbow rubbing with adjusters and tpas and I was spending my world in that Arena, not with what you and I would consider my Titian and that's where, you know, I built some really deep relationship.
9:57
So, just organically happened.
It's been really exciting and when you say that ATI, their risk tolerance was nothing, talk about that, a little bit less before you guys got into the private Equity relationship.
What does that mean?
You guys were just super risk-averse and super conservative or what and in some senses?
10:13
Yes.
Overall, I would say know obviously, we grew and grew exponentially.
So when I say risk-adverse my dad's philosophy founded the business, was he never wanted to borrow a dime You don't want to borrow money to finance a truck.
You don't want to borrow money to finance anything.
10:28
And, you know, funny story when it comes to an acquisition, we only looked at one company and our first 30 years of even considering an acquisition, it was never on our table and it was after Hurricane Ike.
I remember my dad and I flew to Houston, it was someone that he knew back in his Houston days and this guy was doing 10 million dollars in Revenue, even I didn't know any better was until like three or four years ago.
10:51
Now, I talk about it all the time and this guy was is effectively he's making about a million dollars a year in his business of 10 million dollars in Revenue.
Who was it?
Retirement age.
He didn't want to sell the business.
He basically wanted to give the business to a TI.
We were in Houston, the guy had known my dad for 40 years and I remember when my dad and I walked out of the room we're like, you know, we looked at pll's, you know, obviously in confidence, I don't think we had an indie at the time and my dad looked to me, he's like, that guy's crazy.
11:17
If he thinks, or he only wanted two million dollars to the business, he was making a million dollars a year.
What I know now that that was Us one of the most moronic things that we never did, and it was because our risk tolerance, we had never fired anyone.
So, how would we even validate whether the financials were true?
11:34
And we walked out of there and said it's fascinating, it's exciting.
We'd love to buy a business in Houston but we don't know anything about acquiring a company and then this guy wants us to pay him a million dollars.
Like my dad didn't want to take out a ten thousand dollar loan to buy a truck, and this guy wants us to pay him a million dollars to take over his company.
11:51
It was just so foreign and fathom to us that That when I say risk-adverse, we had opened all of our offices organically like, okay, let's go plant a flag here.
Not spend millions and millions of dollars.
So in certain senses, we took on it on her wrist to grow and expand but in a different way than what a lot of the larger, the MMA world is doing now through acquisition, it was just such a foreign concept to us.
12:16
And so when I say risk-adverse like a risk tolerance was nothing because we literally gave that deal zero consideration once we close that door out of That's amazing, like looking back now you're going.
Oh my God, basically would have stolen that busy.
What have stolen it?
Yes, I mean, I mean, if you think about it I think I was really making a million dollars.
12:34
Let's say, you is halfway full of crap and he only made half a million dollars.
Well, I would have made my money back in two years.
I mean, I think any one of us if we could invest 10,000 dollars and be guaranteed that we're going to get that back and we're going to get ten thousand dollars every single year in perpetuity.
Any one of us would make that investment, right?
12:51
Right.
Every had to do to find that money or Only.
I would have borrowed to borrow and and everything I could.
But again, I was just so foreign that honest, I think that's the scary thing with em and a, even even a couple competitors that I still talk to actually, the recent are a event, a couple of them were asking me about expanding into new markets.
13:09
I said, I don't care how big or small you are.
If you think you need to expand an adjacent Market, you gotta consider Ma and I'd happy to give you some advice on what to do it.
But you don't have to go buy a 10 million dollar company, white guy or gal.
That's doing a million dollars a year in revenue and you know, whether they're making fifty thousand a year.
Or two hundred thousand dollars here.
13:25
There's a way to structure a torch a win-win and you don't have to take all the risk yourself and, you know, leave your family to go, you know, two hours down the road.
There's, there's ways to do deals that aren't going to cost you an arm and a leg.
So interesting, it has most of this been a crash course for you.
13:42
Like as just basically, you're being asked to do it more and more.
And so you're just garnering all this information and learning through hard knocks or what was the lead up to that.
It's definitely been hard knocks.
It's been trial by fire.
It's I mean I spend I mean, is the one of your questions is, what do I do?
13:59
Is President I'd say, I've got two titles, president and chief acquisition officer.
I'll tell you, I spent maybe 90% of my time in Acquisitions 480i.
So I am spending a bulk of my time.
When I first started doing this, I read books.
I listen to podcasts and I learned in every deal.
I'm still learning on every single deal.
14:14
So, most of it's trial by fire and I've built a team around me, that honestly, with the exception of maybe two people on my team, I probably got 10 10.
Members that helped me and they do that full time, two of them.
Come from what I called it a traditional MMA background.
14:30
The rest of us are good old guys and gals that grew up in the restoration business.
They're learning by trial and fire just like I am every single day.
The rest of my time is present on us.
I said in on board meetings I get General updates on the business but day-to-day operations I have like next to no involvement and everything that's going on just because I'm more there in a strategic role in an industry liaison through My involvement with riaa probably spend more time working on the industry as a whole than I do on the day-to-day business of ETI, what a wild, what a wild shift.
15:03
Okay so I have I have just a question regarding this whole M AP so you had alluded to that prior to that you were sales and marketing.
Is there a little bit of that Thrill of the hunt that comes in this MN a piece?
Like what is that like house that kind of fire you up?
15:20
Because there's got to be some juices.
They get firing when you're in that mode.
A hundred percent.
I would say, ma is its sales, its sale selling to a different customer.
Yes.
It's the anyone who's ever been in sales, You're motivated by sales.
15:35
You're motivated by ideals.
You're motivated by relationships.
I mean, some of the best scorers ever had in sales.
Aren't they're not the easy one.
The easiest sell is not the not the adjuster who needs me on a job today, and randomly got referred to me.
It's that adjuster who I know.
15:50
Has a big book of business where it's at, restore that I know.
No, we want to be with them HCI once.
I'm in our family, whether that's in a month or if that's in five years, that owner is a good cultural fit.
It's got an incredible business and it's about building that Rapport the relationship in welcoming them into the family.
16:10
Because at the end of the day, no different than a customer looking for, you know, to hire you for a restoration job, someone's the time.
He's got to be right for MMA to work.
Most importantly, it's got to be right for them.
It also has to be right for you.
You have to beat want to be in that market.
But getting over that hurdle.
16:25
That is really that mental hurdle.
I mean it took it took my family.
We had no intention of ever doing a deal with anyone and it literally we got an unsolicited offer that my dad went to lunch with the neighbor.
I mean, that's how this all happened and the guy made my dad and offer.
16:41
My dad thought he was going to lunch with the neighbor and he didn't realize he was a private Equity guy, and they had an hour lunch, and this guy sent my dad and offer and that's how it all started.
And it took us from Dad called an emergency meeting later that week because it got my mom and dad's attention.
16:58
And it took us 18 months from that offer to decide.
If this is a road, we've ever consider going down because we were so anti against it for so many years.
The mental part is probably the hardest part in the journey for any owner, going through a process of what's best for me, what's best for my kids?
17:17
What's best for my employees, and my customers, and some of those answers aren't always the same, what's best for your employees.
May not.
What's best for you?
As an owner may not be what's best for your employees, your customers.
And you've got to look at it holistically and take a step back and say, what's best for the business.
17:32
Ultimately, I've got to put that above all other needs and that's what should be driving your decision because can't grow the business anymore, you don't love what you do.
You probably shouldn't continue to run it because if you don't have an Exit Plan, you really have to love what you do.
First and foremost serves so many things we can do as entrepreneurs and CEOs, but if you don't have that fire in your Holly, that's when you know it's time and this is not a easy business to forge its.
18:00
So I think unless you're passionate, I mean it just gets very difficult for you to face the challenges.
I think in front of most businesses in our industry, if you're not excited about it.
Jeff I got I got a question for you.
How has MA changed ATI?
You kind of quipped that I didn't know how to read a p&l until four years ago, which is super relatable.
18:20
I think probably a lot of people listening but how did It fundamentally change ati's, internal process and financial Acumen and all that kind of stuff will last several years.
So it's been so much more than I ever could have hoped for.
We are a better run, operational business before private Equity, my family cared about the Top Line.
18:40
We never cared about the bottom line at the end of the day as an owner, once you realize that you're chasing bottom line growth, I use an example this morning with the team member and I said there was yours at ATI were all we cared about was top point.
We never cared about the Because we always knew that would catch up eventually and you could go from a year doing say 100 million in revenue and grow by 32%, we be excited, you know, we did 132 million dollars but we may have only made an extra million dollars in profit doing 30 million dollars in Revenue because we extended resources.
19:12
We took our cash in our Capital so growing smart is something that we've been able to do through this Venture.
And I use that example in Houston, where we didn't go out and acquire that company.
So, I've got four kids, both my brothers, have three and four kids.
So my dad's got 11 grandkids.
19:28
I've been traveling at a minimum every other week.
For as long as I can recall, 15 or 20 years, I don't want to travel anymore, and we got to the point to where I don't have a bunch of employees.
There's a few that travel every week but we don't have a hundred people that want to go travel every other week and to grow organically and to Greenfield locations and markets are not in.
19:49
That's what it requires.
And so leveraging, capital resources, Icing and then being able to have business in the door day.
One versus going to a new market and honestly a lot of its hope and wishing and praying that you're going to be successful, that you're going to hire the right person.
20:07
Almost every Market we went into you guys.
I didn't care how big we were at the time or how small we were.
No one knew who the hell ATI was, and that's no different for any restore, going into a new market, it's different.
If you're going 60 miles away, you're going to have some sort of brand awareness reputation.
But if we go on to the next Tate.
20:24
And I remember when I moved to Phoenix, no one in Phoenix had ever heard of a TI and we were doing.
We were one of the largest players in the west coast but 95% of people in Phoenix have no freaking clue who we are and so green Fielding is so difficult.
You are until any owner that you're going to go Green Field and office.
20:42
You're going to hire see people.
See players, you're not getting a pliers because if the market doesn't know who you are I guess what?
The project managers don't know who you are.
Is deaf, people don't.
And if they're just going to say well Going to be like ABC that came in here from another state and you guys are going to be out of business in two years and I don't want to go leave my job with the reputable.
21:02
Whether I'm with a big restore or a local restore to come work for some fly-by-night that I've never heard of and we still go into Marcus even through Acquisitions.
There's a lot of people that have never heard of us, we're pretty good sized company.
But I would say that's true for all restores.
If you're in a little tiny Market, you only know your Market, you don't pay attention.
21:20
If you're not going to the riaa, you're not involved in the industry.
Three, and you're working in Nebraska, you know what's going on in Lincoln Nebraska, but if a TI and BMS and first honest, if none of the big guys are there, you're not paying attention to Ma.
They're not playing in my space.
21:36
It hasn't been relevant to me, I don't know, co-workers, or a former employee.
That's been acquired by a company and disseminate stuffs all foreign, and I'm not paying attention to it because it's not relevant to my world.
It's hard to imagine that the ATI at this point is not heard of in some areas still.
21:53
You I mean it's true like you hundred percent accurate so crazy to me.
Alright, so I'm just thinking in my mind like as you're talking about these experiences as you're talking about, I mean you used to reference it for 30 years there was no you know, em in a strategy in place.
22:10
So I'm thinking, oh my gosh, this company's been around for so long, but if you had to identify like one character trait or skill set that you feel like you've had to really establish to start experiencing the Level of success that you are now, what would you think that is?
22:27
What was that one?
That one thing that you feel like is really been a powerful part of your development and Leadership and success in business.
I think there's two things I would probably or relate that to first of all, you know, is that the founding family members of ATI.
22:44
There's only so much you can do yourself like you're talking 1/100 of 1%.
So you have to have really good talented people and especially, Ownership roles, you want to hire people and a lot of managers and our organization and others are scared to hire people that are better than themselves.
23:00
But you need to hire retain, and keep really talented people because unfortunately, the end of the day, there's 15,000 of us doing restoration and, you know, - a few variables at the end of the day, a customer that has a flood irrespective of who's doing the job, the baseboards going to be reinstalled, the drywall is going to go up.
23:19
A TI is not putting up, any better half-inch drywall than anyone else.
All right, only way to differentiate yourself is to communicate better, maybe do it faster and have really happy people.
So I think at first and foremost, it comes down to people.
And I'd say the skill set that I have, I think the family has and the business.
23:37
If you're looking to grow you have to be willing to change and realize that what you did last year, may be a terrible idea.
This year.
Definitely what you did five years ago, if that's your strategy to continue to grow.
What worked five years ago?
Sure as heck isn't going to work today because we are The same company we were and so you've got to realize that that person even the people next to you, I'll give you a great example that, you know, when we open our Denver Market are probably biggest glowing success story, we did 10 million in revenue and our first full 12 months in a market, we've never been in before.
24:09
Wow, the person that opened.
That office was not the right person to run the office.
Once we got it to 12 or 15 million dollars.
It's a different leader that person still with us at this time.
But I needed a hunter.
I didn't need to gather I needed someone that was afraid to knock on any door to tell everyone in Denver that we're coming to town and we're the new best thing in town.
24:32
But once we had 35, full-time employees wasn't necessarily.
The best leader, or people leader, or motivational person.
We put them back into a sales are also making sure you've got the right talent in the seat in the bus at the right time and it wasn't gosh.
24:50
Old-school ATI, we may have just parted ways with the person that person.
As a top ten producer and the entire organization, but we outgrew his leadership skills.
But he was great.
If I wanted to go to open a new office in any new market, I take him in a heartbeat, I'd have him go build it up for the first two years and then have someone else take it over because that guy's a type A personality.
25:10
He does not.
Like, and I'll tell you, I'm the same.
I got the same personality.
I don't like getting bogged down into the day-to-day minutia and either did this person, and once he was dealing with people calling in sick and, you know, come into work today and didn't understand that, he wasn't the greatest leader and so making sure, but you need today, may not be who need in five years and you have to really reinvent yourself every three to four years.
25:34
Not only personally, but professionally, I mean, like looking back.
Now, I hear like that whole, Reinventing yourself every three to four years.
I mean, I think somebody in your position Looking Back Now, it's like, oh well.
Yeah.
Right.
Like obviously, that was the right move.
But how did you stay like how did you stay in that?
25:53
Einstein as as you were journeying down and making those changes because it seems like it's so difficult for people to openly admit.
I'm currently at the outer edge of my experience or skill set and either I need to evolve or I, as you say I need to bring in someone to help Shore up this weakness.
26:13
But it feels like that's so difficult for people to admit to which sometimes I fully understand and it times, I don't.
But what did you do to kind of remind yourself.
Okay.
Time for me to transition through some changes, it's time to evolve again and be prepared for this next shift.
26:29
I think two things.
One you need to have good outside advisers.
So along the way, we've had an informal order of advisers.
They weren't a board of directors, so we had Outsiders that, you know, we paid a fee.
Once a quarter to come in and none of them had restoration experience and we would report out to them Financial for.
26:47
We're going why we're going and they would challenge the status quo and I think other other people within your organization, you always need to be looking and soaking up ideas to company.
All companies, your employees have incredible ideas, but if you're not open to them, you're not willing to do it.
27:05
You're not willing to change or not rolling to bring someone in every owner will have that day where maybe the business is needs a new leader, needs a new manager that may or may not be you.
And ultimately again that fire in your, in your belly, you know, maybe bring someone in from outside.
27:21
I shared a story the other day.
Or we have an outside CEO and so we brought in private Equity, my dad's 68 going on 69 this year and private Equity said you know at some point guys we need to transition you know Dad's not going to be running.
The company is a CEO at 74 years old so Jeff Ryan do you guys want to be CEO and those are some really difficult internal family discussions.
27:43
Like do I want to run a TI at that point?
We were 350 380 million dollars in revenue and we wanted to get to a billion dollars and My brother and I know we seriously considered it and said, can we do it?
Yeah, we think so.
27:59
But do I want to bet on?
I think so.
Or do I want to bet on someone, that's done it before.
And I remember asking our private Equity.
Once we decided that we weren't going to take on that role, we wanted to do what we loved.
We wanted to find that passion and our belly.
Not that we lost it, but I love work.
28:15
Honestly, guys, five times more than I ever did before private Equity because I found my mojo.
I didn't even realize I didn't have my mojo.
But I found it more doing what I love now and so hiring in and outside CEO was the best thing for the company could me and my brother have done, it could have gotten to a billion dollars.
28:33
Yeah maybe but we've never managed.
I mean the guy we hired at one point was managing 30,000 employees.
He was managing a multibillion-dollar PL basically every day that we were at a TI at that time.
Every day we were doing more Revenue than we'd ever managed before.
28:50
And so at some point, we realize that Yeah, can we do this in the future?
If we want to, I think if we have a good Mentor, you know, at some point our CEO now he's I don't know.
He's probably in his mid-50s so he's got a good ten years left.
We want to be the CEO at some point.
Now we've got a mentor, we've got someone that's doing it.
29:07
If we want to take a step into that seat in the future, I think will be better equipped to do so but you're not always the best person to run the business.
Operationally leader, why sales wise and again put the business first.
Ask your employees, it's incredible.
29:22
They will.
I share with you if you give them permission to be brutally honest, they will tell you where your strong and where you're weak.
And what do I need to do to continue to grow the company and they will share, but you have to respect their opinion as well and be open.
A frenzy listeners.
29:38
We're doing some little bit different with our ads.
So you've been a customer hearing some ads with our favorite partners and companies in the industry.
Now, we actually have a product page Partners page on our website.
So, floodlight grp.com forward slash Partners.
Want to give you a quick rundown, though of the people that we're partnering with and we believe in as really go to resources in the industry.
29:57
The first one is restoration, ER p.com, right?
Erps are an important part of our sales process, our customer development process and Why reinvent the wheel?
The restoration Erp platform is awesome.
It can be customized to your business branding, and all that kind of stuff and has all the components to really create a value.
30:16
Add for your commercial client, accelerate job management software.
Everybody needs job management software and we've just found accelerate.
Not only is their team, like just really great to work with.
When they get ideas from customers, they throw it into the the product roadmap and they implement it, they're really advocating for the contractor and trying to create a software solution.
30:36
That works for them actionable insights.
We recommend actionable insights of all the time, right?
All of us is restoration.
Operators are looking for TurnKey resources and training solutions that we can take our team to the next level and AI when it comes to estimating and matter poor.
30:54
And a lot of the other essential tools were using, they're an awesome resource and they're always coming out with new great stuff.
Yeah.
Super influential in the industry.
Super Tech University soft skills, development training for your Missions, for your Frontline Personnel.
Let's face it Frontline Personnel.
31:10
Are the heartbeat of our company.
They are the ones that connect with our clients and create the customer experience.
There's no better investment than investing in the ability for those individuals to represent themselves our clients and our brands.
Well, so super Tech University Surety, they essentially are cutting down this life cycle between delivering service and then getting paid stepping in removing the middleman in terms of mortgage companies, In that pipeline, making sure that it's there's at least friction as possible, so we can go out, do a great job and then our business is don't suffer.
31:44
We're waiting to get paid.
The money is coming, and it's coming quickly.
And then, the last one guy's is lift up eyes.
Kind of a newer entry to the industry.
They're driving Google reviews.
So there are TurnKey partner that we can literally go out, provide a great customer experience hand that name off to our trusted partner and lift a Phi and have them go chase that Google review, 25 percent conversion rate which is Is industry-wide, people tend to average?
32:09
5% of people?
You ask for review, actually convert lift, 25 bumps at 225.
We were such a big believer.
We are a customer and they have been generating all of our floodlight reviews in a matter of a week and a half for up to, I don't know, cousin, 15 review and just a short period of time.
So, and I think people just underestimate what happens organically with your SEO search activity.
32:27
When you're getting these new and active five star reviews from our clients and we just can't let the pedal up on that because of the effect on our business is long Big deal.
So check it out.
Check out our partners page do business with them.
You won't regret it.
We're confident in that floodlight grp.com forward slash Partners.
32:45
Thanks guys.
Jeff, I one of the themes I'm here and is it would seem from the outside and Brandon I've had the opportunity to engage with, with some of your, some of your downline leaders.
And I think across the board we've been really impressed by the caliber and the culture.
33:05
The way people talk, right?
The language, the way people talk about the work in the business and everything else, and the way that you reference sort of this building this business with the family, it sounds to be relatively drama-free and I can't imagine if there was a huge amount of drama within the family that you guys would have, you be experiencing the kind of success, just outside success.
33:27
You guys are having now.
How do you guys do that?
Because there's a lot of people listen to our, there's a ton of people in the industry, right?
Where there's succession planning happening.
There's parents passing the business to their kids and it's hard.
It's hard for a lot of families.
Like how do you guys keep that straight and still like each other?
33:45
All those things.
You know we are a closer family because of the company and will never lose sight of that.
I think is your small working with families challenging I met my wife at a TI and once I asked her to marry me, I told her that I'm not working with another family member and you can choose the job or, you know, you and I can get married.
34:05
But I work with enough family members now.
And one of the things we did early on, we used to allow a bunch of family members in the business, and I think one of the good things that we did was we limited it.
To me, my two brothers and my dad.
We've got one cousin still left, but running a business with family gets very convoluted.
34:22
I mean, my dad's had to fire, his brother.
We've had to fire my uncle.
My mom was a little brother, you know, along the way.
So things happen.
And so that's where it gets really convoluted.
But as you grow and the more you're stepping on each other's toes, it's impossible.
34:38
It really is to, you know, if you've got to have one leader, that's got to be the final decision in.
The more you can find an Avenue in the Business.
So you're not always contradicting each other.
Because if you do that, that's seen throughout the entire organization and we've been really good.
34:54
I've had both of my brothers at one point of reported to me, my dad's philosophy.
When we came out of college or Junior College, whatever happened to be was you can't work directly for me eventually.
As you move up in the company, that's different.
What did you guys establish?
As a way to do that and really healthy healthy manner?
35:12
So we created some policies that you first got to ask yourself, who do you want to work in the business?
Not just today.
But, you know, five years, ten years down the road, do you want it?
You want to be surrounded by all your family members that works for some that didn't work for us.
Because you know this was a business that was created out of my dad just growing up in the industry and for us family and relationships are so much more important than working with Aunts Uncles cousins because at the end of the day, I think we can all admit most employees don't end up working.
35:42
I'm with you until 65 years old.
So the reality is that that's a bunch of family members.
You've got to do it right for the business and that could be firing your brother firing your aunt, or Uncle your cousin.
And that's tough for down that stuff for you and it's tough for your employees, because no matter how much you don't favor your own employees or your family members, it's always perceived.
36:04
And I'll say, it's not just our family members its managing other people or saying someone that's managing my Seattle office and him hiring his son to work in the Seattle office.
You we've got a policy that says no one can work for another family member.
36:20
I have no problem hiring that person son to work in Seattle, but there needs to be another layer of management.
And if for some reason that person wants to be an estimator, they'll never be able to work in Seattle, as long as her dad's running that office, they can go transfer to another location.
Be your own person, but that also creates animosity amongst employee saying again.
36:41
Even if that That managers not providing differentiated service or management.
Maybe they're giving the worst jobs in the office and they're giving nothing, but some employees are going to interpret that.
And their opinion is, I'll never have a chance here because the son of my manager is getting the cherry pick jobs, even if the reality is, it's not and so, making making sure you're making those strategic decisions.
37:06
Even if you've only got a couple of employees like, you know, do I really want to answer that question?
If my Ask me for a job and two years.
So, I really want to work with my brother because if you don't, hey, I've got a policy that says, I can't hire family members, like hiring your blood relatives.
That's a whole different story, your children.
37:24
But if you don't want to get convoluted that that comes with other complexities, not just for you but your employees.
Yeah.
Then you keyed in on something important there as managing the perception aspect just because yes you know just as aggressively as the actual whatever experience that we may have that perception piece is just so massive It is Well, Jeff this has been it's been super interesting but have you kind of pulled back the curtain a little bit?
37:47
And then share we talk to us about what's going on with riaa because when we chatted, previously, you had that prior run eight or so years ago, what compelled you to come back on the board and what are you seeing like?
What's what's our a up to?
So I like I said I was on the board eight to ten years ago, it wasn't the best experience.
38:07
Honestly, I didn't even finish my term.
I joined it after going to some Advanced does Nations because I wanted to make an impact.
And honestly, I felt what the board at the time.
I didn't feel like they were more self-serving.
My, I don't know that we were trying to inspirationally change the industry for all restores.
38:26
I felt like it was a quote unquote of Good Ol Boys.
And that's not why I joined it.
I was the youngest person on the board may have been one of the youngest person to ever on the board at that time.
And I just didn't feel like I can make an impact.
And so I didn't finish my term fast forward covid-19.
38:42
Marc Springer AGA at Cross?
I kind of got probably went to a couple conferences and that eight year Gap.
I was checked out, I just I felt like our a wasn't, it wasn't the trade Association that we needed through AGA at Cross.
38:57
Marc Springer, Katie Smith.
All of the great leaders that have been there and are there.
Now, I finally felt like they were doing something that was impacting the lives of all restores.
The big guys, the small guys AGA.
I remember Ed Me when they formulated that.
39:13
And he wanted me to be on the AGA task force, and I was just like, no, I just, I don't know add, you know, after seeing what they did for about 12 months and actually making an impact on all restored.
Even those that aren't in the riaa, like they are with their white papers and the talent that we have on the board and tackling those issues.
39:33
And those subjects that is individual resource.
Even at our size at ATI, there's a lot of these subjects 80.
I cannot tackle on their own Servpro L4 can't tackle on their own but as a collective industry, if we are all truly restores you are only as good as your trade Association.
39:51
And when the trade Association, I remember probably the most powerful call.
I had I realized that like out of the top 20 restorers only like three of us were members of riaa which this was two to three years ago.
Pretty reflective of the industry itself.
Like how are we really going to move the mountain here for restoration Mountain?
40:10
If 17 of the 20 largest Stores aren't involved in are participating.
And I remember marks burner and I set out, we've reached out to every CEO of all of those restorers, we got them all in a call.
The ra did a pitch to the 20 largest restorers, and I can truly say, I think it's either 18 or 19 of those 20 are active willing, participants in the riaa, which just shows you the amount of progress that we have made.
40:36
Because at the end of the day, you know, the top 20 restores make up a certainly a huge chunk of Revenue but it's a lot smaller than you think.
I think the 20 largest restorers make makes up like 20% of the industry but it's only twenty percent but that's the easiest 20% to win over.
40:53
Because if I can win over 20 people, it's a heck of a lot easier than wanting over 15,000 individual restores.
And the fact that the big guys in the large, well, their franchise, non franchise, believed in what we're doing, not only for the organization for, for the individual franchise owners.
41:09
It really represents the the Today restore, we are making an impact and we're tackling things like overhead and profit.
We've moved the needle with xactware or challenging things with next skier and CoreLogic to make sure that that viable estimating platform is long term is viable for us as restores more carriers going there and we're tackling these things like construction pricing at one point.
41:36
There was a carrier in the country that was forcing us as restorers to use construction price.
Icing, which is effectively if you were to go out and do a build, you know, 800 homes tract homes, that's what that Priceless intended for that's why Varys created it.
41:51
But you had carriers, that were mandating us as restorers on 10,000 dollar construction jobs, where the margins and the top line line item is discounted by like 40 percent.
We just can't survive.
We just, you know, the insurance companies think we're making money hand over foot, but the margins are actually the margins are incredible.
42:12
The cost to run over store is incredibly high and so much higher than the industry thinks.
And so by having amazing talent at the board level, we can tackle these things that make an impact in all restores lives.
And once you're doing that, I've got all the passion in the world.
42:28
I just came off a ten-day vacation and I honestly, I think I sent two or three emails related to a TI.
I spent probably 25 hours a last ten ten days on my vacation which Just my wife and I working on our a stuff that's how passionate I am about the mission about what we're doing.
42:48
I want to impact people's bottom lines.
I want to impact characters, I think in the future us to be successful.
We need the carriers to pay attention to what the heck we're doing.
I want the largest carrier, I guess it's probably State Farm.
I want to stay Farm in five, I don't know if it's five years or ten years down the road.
43:06
I want re to be so powerful that State Farm is coming to our a hey, were thinking about Doing x.
What is the ra stamps?
And if we can get that, imagine how much more leverage we have as an industry.
Imagine how much more margin we will have as restorers and we won't have that individual pushback because at the end of the day there's always someone willing to do it for cheaper.
43:30
There's always going to be someone willing to do it for not 10 and 10.
There's going to be someone that's willing to do it for 30 percent less exact to me pricing.
And as long as we're doing that, we're not acting as an industry.
We need to have the The whole perspective and to be an industry trade Association, we have to represent everyone.
43:48
Restoration, Rebel or not pro.
TPA anti TPA chasing, non chasing.
I love insurance companies.
I hate insurance companies.
We have to represent all restorers and we need to have one common voice right.
Now, our industry is made up like the political landscape in our country, and you've got 50% on this side of the fence and fifty percent on that side of the fence.
44:11
And if Truly want to make an impact in the industry. 80% of us need to be seeing the same crap.
We need to be moving in the same direction, we can disagree.
Whether program work is good, or it's freaking terrible because they're both accurate.
But as an industry, the reality is 50% of all restores are on the contractor connection program.
44:32
I don't care if you hate TPA work or not, they're a big player in the industry.
Now you can be on either side of the fence, but we've got to play nice with someone that speeding.
It's a major client to 50% of our industry whether you like it or not, that is the reality.
And we have to represent both sides of that fence.
44:49
We got to toe the line, the Board needs to be representative of 50%, of each side of that fence, to Be an Effective trade Association.
You, when we talk to you the first time not long ago about this topic, I mean, everybody listening right now can hear the passion that just fired up.
45:05
I mean you were excited to talk about 80s ask but you just went into a whole different gear when we're talking about hey You gave us some numbers that honestly kind of shocked me and so if you don't mind, can you talk about participation current membership now?
45:21
And why it's going to be so critical for the team to continue to make progress.
So at the end of the day, we're a non-profit, we're not making money, we're just looking to have residuals to cover us through another covid year type of deal.
But yeah, there's about 15,000 restorers in the United States.
45:38
We have approximately 1,500 so we represent 10% of our industry.
That's honestly I speak my mind.
Sometimes, the board doesn't like it.
That's pathetic from Jeff Morris opinion.
How can we represent our association?
All the restores listening, if you're a new member it's like $250 or freaking year, like this is not, I don't care, I don't care.
46:00
If you just started your company you can afford $250.
Like we need more people to be in the association because the more people we have, the more funding we have the more difficult tasks that we can take on.
Our last strategic board meeting, there was 20 of us in the room.
46:15
I think we've talked up, 250, strategic ideas, that would impact all restorers in the country.
Were able to tackle about 10 of them because one budget one time priority.
But man, imagine if we had four times as many members, we probably have four times the budget and we can invest in other things, through AGA at Cross, and the things that they're tackling, but when three of the 20 largest are two of the 20 largest aren't members and You've got 13,500 or stores.
46:45
Hopefully some of which are listening here and are thinking about joining, you know, you've got to be part of the trade Association to make an impact and there's tons of reasons why you join.
First of all, it's a trade Association.
We're out there fighting on your behalf.
The board is incredible.
We're all volunteers.
47:00
We don't get paid to do any of us.
This is out of the goodness of our heart that we're trying to make an impact and restores, but I'll put my CEO hat or my president or my whatever hat you want to call it.
The end of the day.
There's got to be an Roi for anything I do.
If I'm going to do a trade show, if I'm going to try to join a trade Association, we've got something that's called the Affinity program and basically to rebate program we're hoping to have a big announcement at the conference for those that are there on something that's game-changing, but the reality is we've got alliances with about 20 Partners right now.
47:29
We're working with about ten, others were that $250.
If you're a new member, you're going to save thousands and thousands of thousands of dollars.
The ROI is like 10 plus fold.
Even if You're a guy doing a quarter million dollars in Revenue, with two or three trucks, pay for the membership, because we will invest that money and the people like Sunbelt large loss, Mastery Surety REITs.
47:54
I mean, I can give you a whole laundry list of people where they're giving you a discount.
So, well, let me pick on someone looking at some belt right now.
So there are longest Partners.
So if you ever have to rent, boom lifts lighting equipment.
If you're a small guy, you've got to rent because you go up and down in terms of what your capacity and what you own.
48:12
I'll give you a discount and the standard discount for this program is they are giving us all of these members on average about ten percent off.
And so as a restore, you're getting five percent off of whatever you're spending with these vendors.
And by the way, they're giving us five percent back to the trade Association at the end of the year, that's more dollars.
48:31
I can invest to make an impact into your bottom line.
And so what I tell everyone is there's amazing things that we're doing, so you should absolutely join up for you.
Can hear it in my passion.
And again, I'll put my CFO hat on don't join anything.
Unless there's an Roi because I'm telling you right now if you use any one of these vendors the ROI is going to be tenfold of what new membership costs.
48:53
There's Advanced designation again employees, what built a TI was?
The amazing employees.
You've got to invest in your staff.
They've got effectively the Master's Degree.
All of us.
Have IICRC train people, you want to really invest in your staff.
You send them to your CR, your wo last the advanced designations.
49:11
There's Reason there's less than 1000 CRS in the country.
I think it's probably less than 800 of us that have their see, our designation.
Imagine The Leverage you have on an employee that you've invested and they're receiving number 80, 1cr Advanced, designation versus you're one of 100,000 people that are wrt certified.
49:30
You've now invested in that person's future and hopefully they're going to interpret that and not leave and go jump ship for twenty five hundred dollars more in salary from another competitor.
But The conference the conference is coming up.
April 26 to 28 in Orlando.
Come here from the heads of the four largest epa's come here from the president of erised as restored.
49:52
What do we like to complain about the most pricing sucks?
Guy's pricing will never be good enough?
We'll never make enough money compared to what I think the insurance company thinks that we're making pricing can always be improved upon.
We've got the president of the estimating platform at beerus coming we've got the Jesse over at CoreLogic coming.
50:11
Into us.
If you want to find out what's going on in the industry, you need to come to the conference.
And if you can't afford to fly to Orlando because you're a small guy, totally fine, live streaming.
You can still get the educational quality.
You're going to miss out on the individual interactions.
You're not going to meet all the vendors.
50:27
You're not going to see the incredible sponsors you guys talked about today and all the other incredible vendors.
It's an opportunity to meet your peers and that is where you learn.
You learn from talking to other restorers, preferably a Marcus that you're not in because you don't want To trade trade secrets with the guy next door but I have no problem doing that with the guy out of Florida.
50:47
If I'm in Seattle and all of a sudden you're building friendships and that's part of what led me back to our a and into this MN a landscape was putting myself out there and always wanting to reinvent a TI and reinvent myself.
I walked the show at the trade show for like everyone else we don't have everything figured out guys or still learning new products.
51:05
We're still learning one of your sponsors today.
You'll have to name drop the name but the one doing the Google ads.
We still haven't figured out how to Do Google guys and we're ATI so I don't know that anyone in the industry is figured it out but I'd love to meet with that guy.
When I'm in Orlando and hopefully he's got a booth and I can come by and say hi because we don't have it all figured out.
51:22
I don't think anyone does.
I will now formally make that intra and I guarantee you he's going to hear this and go.
I can't wait.
You know, one of the things that that kind of comes to mind, I know Chris.
You probably have a few thoughts to.
So guys, I just kind of want to set the stage for those of you listening.
51:38
Most of you, if you haven't heard of 80, I'd be shocked.
Most of, you know, No roughly kind of the size and scale.
This business has been on a tear creating, you know.
Jeff listening to you talk about your guys's team and what you guys have focused on in the trajectory that you've been on.
There's this huge overwhelming theme of humility.
51:57
And the reason I make that comment is if teams like a TI and you specifically Jeff who have in a lot of ways.
Your guys is company.
Your business has experienced many things about our industry.
In the direction that our industry is headed, that others have not some of it, we do share those experiences.
52:17
But my point is if a team like ATI is prioritizing their membership and their participation with this specific Industry Group with this trade group, then I just think it makes all of us need to just pause for a second and say, then how much more value is there in my voice to be a participant in a group?
52:36
This size?
Because I don't carry the weight like a TI whether you like it or not.
Not, there's some weight that you guys wield by your sheer size.
Yeah.
All of us.
The rest of us.
We don't have anywhere near that toolkit to deploy to protect ourselves to advance our, you know, ours position within the industry and to protect the industry long-term.
52:58
And so I guess I'm kind of just jumping in behind you and saying if a guy like you is making this a priority I feel like it's important for the rest of us to at least think about it because clearly, if we can unify our Is it's going to change the experiences that we all have and if we're honest there's there's a lot about of an industry.
53:18
That's not great right now, there's a lot of challenges and a lot of things that are not in aligned with our, you know, with our best interest.
And the only way to probably make ground on that as we've got to be speaking a Common Language and it seems like riaa can be that platform for us to begin unifying our voices behind.
53:37
It's the it's the best voice is going to get the attention of the industry industry.
We meaning estimating platforms, the two major platforms out there and directly from the carrier's.
That's, that's the voice that we have to bridge.
But we need more people to join and honestly the smaller guys, even more reason to join.
53:54
There's a reason we dropped our membership to a couple hundred dollars from what it was before I want my employee.
Who just gave notice got one in mind, he just gave notice been with me forever and he's going to go start his own thing.
I want him to join, even though he's got he doesn't have a lick of Revenue.
He just gave, notice he still employed with a TI.
54:12
I wish them the most success in the world, but I want him to join our era for $250.
I know we can and that's going to make a difference and hopefully not only him but all of his future employees.
So it's affordable for everyone but you have to invest in yourself and your company.
Otherwise, you're never Reinventing yourself.
54:27
Like I said earlier, every three to five years, forget that you can't spend $250 to make your company better in to invest in the industry and her employees.
You're never going to grow 100% 100%, it's a good thing to end on man.
One, last question for you as we close This out though favorite book or podcast, that you found to better understand the mergers and Acquisitions stuff that's going on our industry.
54:50
Do you have a recommend for those people that are either thinking about working with a PE IT company owners or just somebody who wants to understand it better?
What resources would you recommend?
So specifically for ma there's nothing that comes to mind.
I would say for business, in general, my favorite author is Patrick Lencioni and he writes all kinds of I don't think he's A name and a book.
55:12
I've read all of us.
He's got ten or twelve business Publications.
He's an incredible author talks about things from, you know, building teams and culture to death by meeting, not to have meetings, to have meetings, have got to have purpose.
So I think from a practical perspective ATI actually has a book or hoping to launch at the arra, hopefully it's done in time but it's actually on MMA.
55:34
It's this is not a plug were actually going to sell it on Amazon but for the right, people are also going to be giving it away.
We interviewed I don't know, 20 to 30, I call it figureheads in the industry.
Plus the first five owners that we did deals with, and it talks about the trials and tribulations, and I'll tell you the biggest thing I learned was the mental hurdle.
55:53
Having gone through it personally, and then having interviewed people and having it professionally written, that is the biggest struggle is making the mental decision.
Telling the employees, I'll tell you.
If you're thinking about going down the MAA path.
Do your homework talk to as many people as possible if you've selected someone to sell.
56:11
Business to make sure you talk to not an owner talk to as many or every owner, they've ever acquired because that's where you're going to get the answers.
It's no different than, you know, hiring an employee and they've got three references on their, you know, what's more important.
It's actually calling the people that aren't on the reference lists.
56:28
Looking them up on LinkedIn and say, oh, this employee worked with them seven years ago, that reference is so much more powerful, because if there's, if they already listed him as a reference, you already know they're going to give you great things.
But how are they going to treat you after they've acquired?
The business most importantly, how are they going to treat your employees?
56:44
Are they going to keep them all?
Are they going to let a third of them go within the first 30 days?
Because there's different MLS for everyone out there making Acquisitions and you've got to make sure.
You know what you're getting yourself into.
That's great.
I totally second that Patrick Lencioni reference.
It one of my favorite books of his of more obscure.
57:01
One called getting naked.
Have you read that one?
I have their like a turnaround consulting firms.
Very interesting.
I was like oh this is very applicable in a lot of ways.
Well Jeff this has been really Fun man, I think so.
I think what I've really enjoyed about the conversation is just your candor.
57:16
I feel like it's really refreshing right to talk with with an industry leader and just how humble and open you've been so really appreciate it, man, it's been fun.
Look, forward to a future chat, but thanks for joining us.
Today, I want to end on one thing, I think.
I mean, if said the dates wrong but the are a conference is April 24 to 26, at Rosen Shingle, Creek, which is in Orlando.
57:37
Florida for, I think I said data item on earlier, but I don't LED light will be there and possibility that had hardened boots who will be broadcasting live from our area conference as well.
So anyways, yeah, if you haven't signed up, go do it.
Yeah, let's get it.
We'll see you guys there.
Thanks Carlos.
57:53
All right, everybody.
He thanks for joining us for another episode of head heart and boots.
And if you're joined the show, he loved this episode, please, hit follow formerly known as subscribe.
Write us a review or share this episode with a friend, share it on LinkedIn.
Share it, via text, whatever.
58:10
It all helps.
Thanks for listening.