0:00
Wow, How many of you have listened to the Head Heart and Boots podcast?
I can't tell you that reaction, how much that means to us.
Welcome back to the Head Heart and Boots podcast.
I'm Chris.
And I'm Brandon.
Join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses we lead.
0:17
This new camera angle makes my arms look smaller than yours.
I'm noticing that and I really appreciate it.
I thought you did that on purpose, No?
I I don't.
I didn't And I I am not happy with it.
Hey all, thanks so much for listening to the show.
Hey, if you're not already following, please do so and ultimately share, right?
0:35
Like the coolest currency that we have in terms of supporting this is share it with a friend.
Share it with somebody, a colleague.
Appear one of your downline team members.
Let them be able to take advantage of the information you're already leveraging in your favor.
And finally, guys, if you hear a show that really moves you, that really moves the needle, will you please leave us a review?
0:54
Those five star reviews help us a time.
Right on.
And listen, if you're trying to grow your business, you might consider checking out floodlights business opportunity audit, it's free.
We provided at no charge.
It's actually what we use to assess new clients as they come in.
1:10
It's 110 point assessment for your business and we've now decided to give access to the general public for it.
So go and take our business opportunity audit at floodlightgrp.com.
It's going to help you identify the biggest gaps and opportunities in your business right now.
And at the end, it'll assign you a health score to let you know exactly where your business stands right now.
1:30
So go check it out, floodlightgrp.com/audit and take the BOA.
It's a great way to get a pulse on your business.
Oh my gosh, I feel so energized bro.
Do dig?
You know what this is?
Kind of.
Well, we were just having some side chatter.
It was kind of motivating some clarity.
1:46
This may come to a shock to most of you, but we're actually actively building a business, right?
They were building a company.
And Needless to say, just like the rest of you and us in these seats as we build and develop businesses, not everything is pre thought out.
2:02
We sometimes are learning quite hard in the journey itself and it's always, I think, motivating When we kind of sit into something and go, we can be confident that's.
Exhilarating.
And I think, Oliver, you can relate to this, right?
You have these barriers, these walls you run into where you're not quite sure.
2:19
Do I go to the right?
Do I go to the left?
Do I need a sledgehammer to tear the wall down?
Like, what's the solution to this bottleneck in front of me?
Do I break the bottle?
Is there a way for me to shimmy out of the front?
You know, like, what is the best way to proceed?
And then when you find that groove, you find that exit path and you're like.
2:38
Yeah.
This it's so exhilarating when you find that path.
I feel like as business owners, anytime we can find something that we can be confident in, it's like, OK, cool, let's put our energy now into these other problems to create solutions, right, Long term solutions.
2:55
So it's like anytime we can create some level of confidence in something, I just think it's so helpful.
But Speaking of confidence, what?
Yeah, man, are we going to talk about?
OK.
So a lot of the people that listen to our show, you just like us, are in these positions where your businesses are changing and or in order for your business to change, it's going to demand something different from you.
3:14
And we talk about that a lot.
You know, right now we're working behind the scenes on a ton of leadership stuff and we're so excited about that.
And again, it just has you so introspective because you're just thinking when I was in this place or when I was in these seats or I'm am in this seat, what are the things that are important to me that give me stability and continuity and how I'm behaving?
3:33
OK.
All that to say, one of the things that I've just dove into head first is really levelling up, but differently than maybe I have in the past.
And that is I'm trying to be better about creating intentional priorities in my life and making those the rocks.
3:51
And here's what I mean by the rocks.
I think all of us.
I can't remember if it was Covey or who did this originally, but that's the video that shows us or shows a gentleman trying to fit rocks, sand, pebbles and water into a container.
And if you do it out of order, it won't fit.
4:06
But if you start with the large rocks 1st and you progressively get to the smaller items, miraculously everything fits in this container, right?
And so one of the things I've realized is that I've iterated versions of that over the last, you know, whatever, 10 years a lot.
4:23
But I still find myself placing some of the other stuff in first and leaving some of these big rocks out and then inevitably I figure out by the end of the month, the end of the year, whatever they didn't fit.
And so I'm really trying to reorient around that and I'm doing a lot of self study and I'm listening to a lot of education and stuff around kind of really high level time management and priority management.
4:47
And one of the things is I kind of stripped my entire calendar out and I just looked at it from this perspective of every time block, what was I doing, what was it focused on, Who was it for?
Who was it about?
And I realized I had no rocks in my calendar that had anything to do with my relationships outside of driving work outcomes and product.
5:09
And that is a system failure for me.
That doesn't feel good, right?
So in my world, in my dynamic, and I'm not sure if I have any family that actually listens to our shows or not, but this is going to sound bad.
If any of my family's listening, please give me some grace.
But here's some honesty.
5:25
I've referred laughingly to A lot of family get togethers is our family guilt togethers.
And you know, what I've realized over the last 40 years is I've allowed myself to be a victim of circumstance.
In my family scenario, you're not leading.
5:41
I'm not leading that shit right.
I'm the one that comes up with all the excuses of why I'm not good at calling my sister on a consistent basis.
I'm not good at XI.
Don't have date night on my calendar on a consistent basis.
I'm not pursuing my wife.
Pursuing versus being married are two different fucking sports.
5:59
And I've been married for 27 years.
I pursued my wife a ton in phases, right?
And so there was just this kind of come to Jesus moment for me where I'm like, hey, I want to win in all the quadrants of my life.
6:15
And when I assessed it, I even told my wife this the other day, It's like, you know, one out of 10 scale one to 10.
I feel like I'm like an 8 in business right now.
Not what we want yet, not landed the plane, but the amount I'm giving, the exploration I'm giving, the energy, the excitement I have around creation and what we're doing.
6:34
It's very high right now.
I feel like in terms of mental development for myself, I feel like I'm really iterating right now.
I'm doing a lot to force myself to be in a position to make some advancements mentally, physically, like self-discipline.
Definitely leveling up right now.
6:51
I would say I'm doing really fairly well in all those categories.
But then I got this big goose egg dude, and that's relationships outside of strategic partnerships.
You know, it's my kids, it's my wife, it's my more distant family.
It's my mom.
7:06
It's my aunts and uncles.
Like, I'm not being the leader.
I've been in this position where I'm doing whatever it is that they're setting the stage for, and I'm using that as an excuse to failure.
All right.
So I respond well to that kind of challenge in my life for me personally.
7:22
Like, to me, that's not a negative.
I'm not depressed.
I'm.
You're an 8.
You kind of appreciate something smacking you in the nose.
Yeah, I see it.
I'm like, cool, OK, now I know what I want to do and I've been intentionally wanting to make a shift.
And so here's what I wanted to do.
It was a really long fucking opening.
7:39
But essentially what I wanted to do is just kind of bat back and forth some of the things that we I am doing right now to intentionally change the strategy around relationships.
Because again, I think the effects of when we get in certain categories, if you will, of our life together, they reach well beyond that category.
8:00
It's not an isolated silo, right?
And so if I can get a grip on how I'm proactively leading the relationships in my life, personally, to me, my gut says there's a 10X return on professional relationships too, right?
And so anyways, that's kind of the pocket I wanted to hang in.
8:18
Oh yeah.
Anyway, that's where I'm at.
So you know, one of the things I really appreciate, I was about to use the word love.
And I'm like I'm always talking about love.
Oh, feel like such a softie sometimes.
But it's one of the things I appreciate about yours and I's partnership as one.
8:35
I feel like we're both kind of in a similar seasonal life.
We're both oriented around these things, but we tend to be hyper focused in different areas at different times.
We do that.
Kind of complement each other.
Like one of us will be doing really well in a certain area and it kind of spurs the other person on to like I need to get my shit together, you know, I need to focus more on that and vice versa, you know?
8:55
I think both of us have experienced that.
I love this topic, dude, and it's very front Center for me too.
Like for me, I've come to the place where the primary thing for me is my home relationships.
Yeah, I spent the 1st.
I'm 44 now, and it's really just been in the last three years that that orientation has really started to fundamentally shift for me.
9:18
Because I feel like it's hard for me to be my best in my work, in my creativity and my drive and my ambition and the way I treat others and the connection I'm building with my team, with you, with our clients, everything else.
When there's brokenness or strife or conflict or even just coldness between my.
9:40
I mean, if I'm really honest, it's my marital relationship.
Oh yeah, and.
It's like as I've been prioritizing my marriage, my relationship with my kids tends to follow in the same vein, like the same energy.
If I can get the energy right and my output right with my wife, then what I'm putting out with my kids tends to be more aligned.
10:02
Yeah.
And when I'm treating my kids the way that I want to treat them and being the kind of person I want to be with my kids, my wife is more drawn to me and feel safer and more drawn towards me, which then feels healthy.
And there's a sense of connection and companionship there that I feel like just it frees me up to bring my full energy and my full thoughts to the work.
10:25
Yeah, it's not instantaneous.
No.
Like anything else that's of value, like I'm talking about this.
And I'm also in a season that's been highly challenging for me and my work.
It's been really, really hard for me to be president and my full self the last several months.
10:40
Even at Floodlight.
My dad's dying.
I'm in my mid 40s.
I'm in that, you know, like there's a lot of stuff hitting and you've had, I know, a very real seasons of this yourself where it's just like it's very difficult to bring your full self to every moment.
But what I'm seeing is like, there's a trend line, and the trend line is when I am prioritizing the health of my relationship with my wife.
11:02
Yeah, everything else gets better.
Yep.
Everything else goes up 100%.
And I think the other thing that I'm realizing too, or that's like informing that is how many very successful people do you and I see.
11:18
Yeah.
And have seen that have it all.
They have it all in air quotes.
Yeah.
They have it all the really cool cars, the beautiful homes and properties, the esteem of others.
And internally, there's a lot of turmoil.
11:36
Yeah.
Behind the curtain.
Yep.
Some that recognize it, some that don't.
Yeah.
But visibly, like you and I have observed these things and it's like, man, I don't want to be one of those people that has the house on the lake with the boat and the tan from all the vacations, everything else.
11:53
And to have this disconnection, this isolation that I feel from my partner.
Yeah.
And or a string of partners.
And so I've just, I'm so thankful for that.
I'm 44 and I'm starting to come to that.
All of us come to that at different points in our life.
I'm a little bit jealous of those that seem to be getting a grip on that in their 30s, earlier on in their life.
12:11
I'm like, God, I wish because I think it is becoming a superpower for me that when stuff at home is aligned.
Yeah.
And there's an integrity to all of this.
I think that's what it is.
I think when things are misaligned at home but going well at work, it actually points to an integrity issue.
12:30
Yeah, lack of alignment.
Yeah, for me, it's becoming really black and white.
It's like, OK, there was this meme that I posted on LinkedIn recently.
It was this little quote.
I don't know if it's called a meme, where it said, you know, integrity is being aligned in what you think, say and do.
12:47
And I think most of the time we get hung up as people, or at least in business.
Most of when we talk about integrity, it's between what you say and what you do.
Yeah.
And we completely leave out what we're internally thinking, which is I'm discovering a huge part of integrity.
13:02
Yeah.
Because I can more easily become aligned with.
Well, I said it, so I gotta.
Yeah.
But in the back of my mind, I can feel resentment or I can feel conflicted.
Yeah.
Like, I may not even be totally bought into what I said and what I'm doing.
I really thought something else, but I'm doing and saying these things to please other people or out of my anger or anything like there's misalignment.
13:25
Yeah, that's really interesting.
I want to jump in there because I think that ties into something I just kind of had cooking in the back of my mind as you were talking, and that is this.
And this is my personal experience.
I'm not saying this is fact and I'm not saying all of you are experiencing the same thing, but for me personally, just the monetary pro forma driven goals aren't enough to get me up at 4:00 AM every day, all day.
13:48
They're just not.
It makes me and again, we kind of alluded to this I think in another episode which just around the unknowns that exist when we're leading and building businesses is there's this challenge of you just are already going to spend a fairly healthy amount of time doing things you're not terribly confident in yet because you're still designing, building, determining, learning, researching, whatever.
14:11
And so one of the things I'm realizing is that the more clear I am on my why for me personally and what I'm starting starting to develop more clarity around personally is this idea of I kind of have like 4 areas in my life and I want all four of those areas to be making forward progress because I'm intentionally thinking about that and engineering process, engagement, calendars, priorities to help me get gains in all four quadrants.
14:41
Well, when I'm doing that, the ability for me to stay the course with the company gets a lot easier.
It's not easy.
It gets easier, right.
And So what I mean by that is this, If I look at our business and I look at all the different opportunities that us based on our background, experience and relationships have access to, there's lots of shiny things, man.
15:03
There's a lot of shiny things.
And one of the ways that I'm getting better at making decisions is I'm going back to those quadrants.
And I'm saying does this put me in a position to continue to make progress in these other areas?
15:19
And if the answers no, there's a strong chance I just shouldn't fucking do it right?
And so if I take this back to, like, this quadrant that I'm currently want to get significant movement in, which is personal relationships, and I think to myself why I'm doing what I'm doing, This is going to be for me, I'm going to be hella transparent.
15:39
Do I want to make a significant amount of money?
Yes, I do.
Do I want financial freedom in the way that?
Do I want to be stressed about buying the right kinds of groceries?
No.
Do I want to be stressed about maybe having some meal prepping done for us?
15:55
No.
If that's what I want to do, I want to fucking do it.
Do I want to have someone help me with my property?
Yes, I fucking do.
If you don't want to do that, cool.
But I do, right?
Like these are things that I want to.
Have money matters.
Right.
Money matters.
OK, and money doesn't help me get up in the morning.
16:13
Not when shit gets hard, but my family does.
So point being, when I look at my business and I say why am I doing this?
I'm looking for freedom of my time so that I can reinvest that time into my family, into relationships, into things that motivate me, things that get me excited, that make my heart race, that makes my skin get tingly like I want to do more of that.
16:34
Which means then I have to create a strategy around the businesses I'm going to pursue, invest in and grow so that I can live out that.
Yeah, well, that's a different motivator than me saying, yeah, but if I do this thing, maybe there's a big liquidity event that gets me X.
16:54
But what would I give up between now and X?
And would X fix that part of that quadrant?
And the answer 9 times out of 10 is no.
Yeah.
And so I'm not trying to create an excuse for me to do less.
I'm creating a reason to do more of the thing matters liftify.com.
17:15
Forward.
Slash.
Blood light.
You've heard Brandon.
I talk a bunch of times about the importance of Google reviews.
Maybe even heard our episode with Zach Garrett, the CEO and founder.
Recency, consistency.
Two of the most important things when it comes to maximizing the benefit from your Google reviews.
17:32
Why not use an outside partner?
Liftify is targeting 20 to 25% conversion, right?
So if you do 1000 jobs a year, you ought to be adding right now 200 to 250 reviews a year, every single year.
If you're not doing that, you owe it to yourself to get a free demo from liftify.com.
17:49
See their system, see how it works, see how affordable it is.
I promise you you'll thank us.
Liftify.com forward slash blood light.
You know, we spend a lot of money and a lot of attention trying to get that first call.
And one of the things that we do once it happens is sometimes we leave it to chance, right?
18:07
Who picks up the phone?
How do they respond?
How do they walk that client into a relationship with us?
Well, one of the benefits of partnering with a team like answerforce.com is we can systemize that.
We can make it more consistent.
We can also have backup for when our teams need that help, right?
18:23
Somebody goes on vacation, somebody's out sick, you know, we get a storm surge, we get cat event.
All sorts of things can have an impact on how we receive that client, but the most important thing is they need to know that they've chosen the right team.
And so answerforce.com can support you, be a bolt on partner to help you consistently produce an awesome onboarding experience with that first call with your client.
18:46
So answerforce.com/bloodlife.
That's great.
CNR magazine.
We're friends with all the folks at CNR, Michelle and her team, they do a great job of keeping their ear to the ground and reporting all the important information from our industry, right.
You want to stay up on all the M&A activity and what the latest best practices are for selling your company successfully, right?
19:06
She's got that great articles about all the four quadrants of our business, right?
CNR is constantly pushing out great material and leveraging great writers and subject matter experts in our industry.
It is the water cooler of our industry.
So if you're not subscribed, go to cnrmagazine.com.
19:24
Follow them on LinkedIn.
Follow Michelle on LinkedIn.
Trust us, if you're trying to stay on top of everything happened in the industry, your best destination is cnrmagazine.com.
You guys, many of you have already heard about Actionable Insights and the training and the technical expertise that they bring to the industry.
19:42
But how many of you are already leveraging the Actionable Insights profile for Xactime?
That's the game changer.
It's essentially an AI tool that's walking alongside of you as you write your estimate, bringing things to your attention that should be added that could be considered all of them items that increase our profitability, increase the effectiveness and the consistency of that scope.
20:06
And it can do anything from helping a new team member assimilate as some estimating best practices and it also helps the grizzled vets add back that few percent that we've just forgot over time.
So Actionable insights.
Get insights.org/floodlight and take a look at what the actionable insights exactimate profile could be doing for you and your team.
20:30
It's this question that I think both of us have been wrestling with pursuing of what kind of life?
Yeah.
Do I want to live?
Yes.
What kind of person do I want to be?
One of the instigators for me is I have this friend Tim.
Tim Wrist.
He's a really successful real estate guy here in Northwest.
20:47
Shout out to Tim, Tim is a lot younger than me and Tim has this property in the forest.
It's really incredible and beautiful.
It's almost like, what's that fantasy world that came out of that movie?
A really famous movie?
Avatar.
No, not Avatar or the other one with the guy with the really long white beard.
21:05
Lord of the Rings.
Lord of the Rings, good God, you're like his.
I know it was terrible.
His property is like something out of Lord of the Rings, like out the forests.
And it's just incredibly beautiful.
And one of the things I've started doing with Tim is Tim and I do forest walks.
Yeah.
And he's got this path.
He's got like a bunch of acres.
21:20
And we walk this path through his forest.
And I just, I learned something about myself doing that.
It's not like we do this every day.
So it's like, you know, every couple weeks or so we'll do it.
It's like, hey, dude, Are you ready for a forest walk?
We just walk.
And I just, I realize in those moments, I'm like this moment of walking through the trees and just like the fresh air, just all the whole experience of being with a friend, walking through the floor.
21:44
We don't even ever say a lot sometimes.
Yeah, we just walk through the forest.
He has these two goldendoodles that just run and they're playing and we watch.
It's just, it occurred to me, this is such a simple moment and yet I want lots of these moments in my life.
Yeah, there's peace in that moment.
22:00
There's pleasure, especially in the summer when it's like sunny and we're in the shade of the trees walking in and out of the sun.
It's just I just started to notice those things and realize for this moment I don't need $150,000 sports car.
Yeah.
I don't need a $40,000 side by side out here in the woods.
22:20
I don't need, I don't need.
I don't need.
Like, this is one of the pleasures of life that it feels really good and I want more of this.
Yeah.
And it started to tune me into what is on offer with friendships, like what kind of life do I want?
22:35
Yeah, I want a life that supports this.
Now, that's not to say that's not me leaving behind 150,000 on a sports car, right?
It's like I just posted about renting a Tesla on Facebook the other day and Oh my gosh, you know, a Tesla Plaid, holy moly.
22:51
It's not a giving up of good things, of the certain kinds of pleasures.
It's that I'm recognizing I don't need to build my life around those.
It's not the pursuit of those things that matters.
And you could say, what's about financial freedom?
23:08
Yeah, probably.
But I think it also means that if for some reason having all of that is incompatible with me having my forest walk, I'm good with the forest walk.
Yeah.
I'm good with having breakfast with my wife in the morning and having a slow coffee time with her on the couch.
23:23
Yeah.
Like, if it means I have to sacrifice those things to get the fancy cars and the six car garage and that, like all this other stuff that we see pictures of as part of success, then I'm like, OK, well, I'm definitely not willing to sacrifice the forest walks to get that.
23:40
Yeah, there is a lot I'm willing to sacrifice.
Yeah, you know what I mean.
No, I do.
It's so much more of those moments.
Yeah, it's like you get better.
I think midlife calls us to it to a certain extent.
But so here's kind of what is coming to my mind as you say that because I agree with you and I think that we're again, as you guys have known over the years listening to the show, it sounds weird to say that over the years, literally three years listening to the show that Chris and I don't walk the exact same path.
24:07
We are very, I think well, yin and yanged in terms of balance and it's one of the great things about our partnership and we're very different people.
So for Chris, like as he explains this, I want to give you an example of how different our minds are even though the outcome ends up being unified.
24:26
So here's Chris is looking at this more from this perspective of I want this and therefore I'm willing to give up that.
And there's nothing wrong with that.
But that's just kind of naturally where his head problem solves this.
Here's where mine does because many of you relate to one or the other.
24:43
My head goes to and I know Chris feels the same way about this.
I just want to be living out the stuff that I'm engineering, not being a victim to.
And again, I'm not.
I mean, I know you're aligned with that.
It's a.
Different angle.
It's just a slightly different mind approach is for me.
25:00
I go, hey, when I look at my business, I'm willing to make sacrifices.
I'm willing to do things like how I prioritize my scheduling blocks.
I'm willing to do, let me frame it this way.
In order to succeed at business, I'm willing to learn, do research, humble myself, put in systems, put in process, hire people to help me execute on said systems and processes.
25:24
But then when I think about my relationships, it's left a chance, it's half hazard.
It's what's left.
It's kinda, it's also, and I'm just saying, what if you looked at these quadrants of your life and you said, you know what?
I'm really fucking good at business.
I'm really good at listening to a coach, a consultant, a relationship, a partner, the industry, and absorbing these techniques and doing something to implement them.
25:47
In my business, what am I doing to learn and execute and implement things so that my relationships, as an example, are just as influenced by my intentionality about me developing a skill set to win in that category.
26:03
And that's really what I'm talking about.
So like an example and trust me guys, this is not a soft pitch for a consulting relationship, although we would certainly love you to consider it, right?
Part of what the consulting team does at Floodlight is that we realize we're selling to a presenting problem.
26:21
Let's just call a spade a spade.
You in your own mind as a leader in this industry or an owner are thinking to yourself, hey, I really need help with Ari, really need help with this system, with this process and you'll.
I got to get my PMS leveled up.
We don't have the margins we want.
26:37
I.
Got to get some training.
I'm sick of hiring this role.
I'm Turnover's Killing.
Like all these functional things in the business that are creating a problem that you want to solve because they're taxing on you.
And here's what I just want to say very honestly to all of you.
At the end of the day, the reason you want that is because you don't feel balanced in your personal existence.
26:57
There is something out of whack and it's causing high levels of stress, high levels of anxiety, confusion, sometimes paralysis by analysis.
Like, I understand that most of you aren't buying consulting to fix that problem, but I just want you to hear loud and clear. 90% of part of it.
27:16
That is the result that actually matters because everything else is just a thing.
But what matters to our clients, I know from personal experience, when you have them talk about what they've experienced and what they're happy about.
Does growth in top line revenue matter?
27:32
Sure.
Does growth in their GP matter?
Yes.
Does taking home more money out of the millions that you earned that year matter?
Yes.
But you know what they talk about is they talk about getting their fucking lives back.
Why?
Because those pillars, those quadrants, are far more important to us then we often recognize or look at intentionally.
27:52
Right.
It's so true.
So I was literally having a conversation Sunday on Easter with a buddy of mine.
He was talking to me about a conversation he was having with his dad.
Oh, his dad's a very successful business guy here in our region.
Yeah.
28:08
And I'll just say like 10s of millions kind of guy.
So not a Bezos, but like, yeah, 10s of millions of dollars and in his 70s now travelling all over the world and doing basically anything that he wants.
They have that kind of money, right?
28:24
And he said it was very interesting in this recent conversation that he had.
He was reading a book, and I can't remember the title of the book, but basically about the different seasons of life.
He's approaching his final season.
He was recognizing that and he was talking about how differently he felt and how he was realizing everything he had worked his whole life for doesn't matter anymore.
28:46
This guy, and I've actually done business with this guy.
He was a service provider anyway.
I don't want to give too much away in case my buddy listens, but the point being, this guy has been hyper successful.
I know this person, and I was actually very surprised to hear that he finally came to this reality because he's so driven, ambitious, you know, money and business and all this kind of stuff.
29:07
And he literally said to my friend, I'm realizing that what I've spent my whole life creating and building doesn't matter anymore.
He's getting to the point now where physically they can't travel as much.
And he knows that even that pleasure is coming to a close and you get to a point where you don't have anything to spend your money on anymore.
29:29
What, you're going to go buy another sports car after you've already had four you've already got, like, I had the sense actually when I drove that Tesla Plaid.
I mean, seriously, I'd been jonesing for that experience for a while and then I hammered down on it for three days and I'm like, OK, well, I've experienced that pleasure and it was great.
29:47
And will I go rent it again to go, you know, pull that lever again, get that hit?
Yeah, probably.
But it's like you can do that so many times.
You can go to the tropical islands and go on the fancy cruises and go stay in the cool hotels in Paris.
And this guy has done.
30:02
All of it.
All of it just came back from Egypt and like everything.
But he's even realizing I'm now entering a stage of life where none of that matters.
Oh, am I going to maybe have a better assisted living home that I can afford to stay in?
Probably.
I'll probably eat better than the average schmo who's getting the Sysco foods.
30:20
Yeah.
OK, great.
You worked your whole life for that.
Awesome.
But he's now realizing he's like, I can't take any of it.
And he's approaching that moment and it just, boy, I think that dovetails so well that so many of us writer like you and I in our 40s.
30:36
But we know that we know that that day is going to come because we're now, some of us are watching our parents approach that day.
Yeah, well, we've watched grandparents or we've watched friends that now they're approaching that day, in some cases way sooner than they anticipated.
Yeah.
I think the opportunity here is and again like some of this is just to remain somewhat generic enough for you guys to consider it and put yourself in the appropriate set of shoes.
31:00
It's intentionality.
I think at the end of this, what we're saying or what we're pointing towards is intentionality.
Sit down take the time to visioneer your own life and ask yourself hard questions.
Ask yourself if I was able to remove, here's an example this a little Dan Martel action, right, of if I were able to look at my life and say, OK, what are the 20% of the things that I do that have yield 80% of the results that I'm excited about.
31:30
And then look at that remaining 80% and say what can I begin to do in a real tactical, intentional and proactive way to remove more of that.
Because there's a strong chance that 20% of what you're getting to do that to creating a lot of result for you.
31:46
Some of that might be in that relationship quadrant right.
Something there could be happening in your behalf.
I think what this boils down to and shoot, I think a keynote or something, we even talked about this was.
But at the end of the race, when you're in auspice, when you're in a hospital somewhere, a facility somewhere, you will not have keys to different types of vehicles or pictures from different vacations or badges of companies, top 500 awards sitting around you.
32:18
Unless you put your Hospice bed in your office where you built a shrine to yourself and your achievements, there's a strong chance there ain't shit around you.
So what you're going to be left with is either the relationships that you earned by the way that you led and developed and invested in them, or you're going to be by yourself.
32:37
I don't want to be by myself, dude.
No, I don't think we're designed to be by ourselves.
Yeah, I.
Don't want to be by.
Myself, here we are.
OK, gang, we kind of ended a little bit depressing there.
OK, so one of the things to consider here, right?
How do I get some of that back?
Well, look at your life, Look at your business.
32:53
Do you feel like you're starting to hit your head against the wall?
Are you starting to approach a point where we're solving lots of, let me put it this way, you're putting out lots of fires, but you're not solving a lot of problems with long term solutions.
Talk to us.
It's not car sales.
I'm not going to force a contract into your face.
33:10
Have a conversation with our team.
Maybe what you need to start shifting some of these priorities and getting some of these quadrants moving in a direction is the partner.
It's a partner, a battle buddy.
So if that's you, talk to us.
If not, invest in some of the relationships around you, friends, people, peers, advisors, mentors, and just start visioneering that thing so that all quadrants of your life are making gains and making advancements so that you can be excited at the end of the race, Right.
33:36
OK.
Again, OK.
Till next time.
Thanks for hanging out.
All right everybody.
He thanks for joining us for another episode of Head Heart and Boots.
And if you're enjoying the show but you love this episode, please hit follow formerly known as subscribe.
Write us a review, or share this episode with a friend.
33:55
Share it on LinkedIn.
Share it via text, Whatever.
It all helps.
Thanks for listening.