0:00
All right.
Welcome back to the Head, Heart and Boots podcast.
This is Chris Nordike, and we've got a great show for you today.
So Brandon and I, in this episode, we are talking with Doctor Jake Avila of Middle Tennessee State University.
And there's a couple things that are really interesting about this.
0:17
And in fact, you you may find this so inspiring that if you have the resources, you may want to pull your checkbook out.
Because Jake is doing something very interesting for our industry in that he is working on building out a restoration construction management degree program at Middle Tennessee State University within their existing construction management department that he's already started fundraising and building a roster of partners that you can join by the way.
0:45
In fact, Brandon and I are going to be having a strategic conversation as to how we have Floodlight can be helping in this effort.
But imagine this in the not too distant future having graduates coming out of Middle Tennessee State University with degrees in restoration right to be knowledgeable about project management and many of the other fundamentals in our business so they can step right into your company as a productive employee.
1:10
It is very exciting.
And I think what's even more exciting about that is if he's successful in deploying this program, it means that we're likely to see more of these programs come out of other universities.
And I think that's good for our industry.
So check out the conversation.
I hope it's as inspiring and exciting as it was for Brandon and I.
1:29
Thanks for listening.
And as always, subscribe like and share this with your friends and your employees in the industry.
It's the best way to get the word out about Head Hardened Boots.
Thanks a lot.
Wow, How many of you have listened to the Head Hardened Boots podcast?
I can't tell you that.
React how much that means to us.
1:46
Welcome back to the Head Heart and Boots podcast.
I'm Chris.
And I'm Brandon.
Join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses we lead.
This new camera angle makes my arms look smaller than yours, I'm noticing.
That and I really appreciate it.
2:01
I thought you did that on.
Purpose.
No, I I don't.
I didn't.
And I I am not happy with it.
Hey all, thanks so much for listening to the show.
Hey, if you're not already following, please do so and ultimately share, right, like the coolest currency that we have in terms of supporting this, Share it with a friend, share it with somebody, a colleague, appear one of your Downline team members.
2:21
Let them be able to take advantage of the information you're already leveraging in your favor.
And finally, guys, if you hear a show that really moves you, that really moves the needle, will you please leave us a review?
Those five star reviews help us a time.
Right on.
2:37
And listen, if you're trying to grow your business, you might consider checking out floodlights business opportunity audit, it's free.
We provided at no charge.
It's actually what we use to assess new clients as they come in.
It's 110 point assessment for your business and we've now decided to give access to the general public for it.
2:55
So go and take our business opportunity audit at floodlightgrp.com.
It's going to help you identify the biggest gaps and opportunities in your business right now.
And at the end, it'll assign you a health score to let you know exactly where your business stands right now.
So go check it out, floodlightgrp.com/audit and take the BOA.
3:14
It's a great way to get a pulse on your business.
Hey Jake, man, we're really excited to have you.
Thanks for taking time out of your busy schedule to come hang with us.
Awesome.
Thanks for having me.
I've been looking forward to this.
So you and I connected the first time we were kind of batting it around before we we hit record.
3:31
I mean it's it had to be maybe 2018, maybe 2019.
And so anyways, I've been curious about what you're building since the very beginning.
I think when you and I talked last time, it was almost brainstorming stage.
But in your own words, I think it would be really awesome for our listeners to hear what what is it that you've got cooking over at the university specifically for us is restorers?
3:54
Yep, Yep, absolutely.
Yeah.
So, yeah, like you're saying, I mean that this has really been brewing for some time.
So what we currently have, you know, not under planning right now is starting a degree concentration in restoration, right.
Not sure yet exactly what we would call it, whether it be restoration industry management or, you know, disaster restoration, but it would be a bachelor's degree in construction management with a concentration in restoration.
4:19
And and really, I mean, where this came from is I think for the last several years, you know, when you, when you first get in a higher education, you start teaching, you know, there's there's a lot of things you do, like in the classroom or you're teaching classes, but then you also are required to do research, right.
And this is kind of, you know, part of being an academic, and it is a fun part of it.
4:38
But I think sometimes, you know, when you look at writing academic papers, I mean, they're just, they're not always fun to write and they're not, they're rarely fun to read.
But I was committed to, you know, to doing a lot of research focused on the restoration industry, right?
So when we first started looking at research projects, what I did is I teamed up with some folks.
4:57
So one of which was Les Cunningham, who's really been supportive of everything for a long time.
So Les and I have been just bouncing ideas off each other for a long time.
He's been supportive of all the research projects that I've been a part of, so he personally has his written checks to help fund our research.
5:14
Business networks in general, the members of business networks have written checks to, to fund our research because when you take on an academic study, you know, it can be pretty expensive when you start looking at sometimes you have to bring in, you know, consultants, sometimes you have to the instrumentation you use can be expensive as well.
5:31
And so they've been just super supportive with all of that.
So it started out with, I mean a focus group with less and and some of the BN members and I just said, hey, you know, I'm professor now because you know, I transitioned from industry.
I was working in restoration since I was a kid, but pretty much my whole adult life I was working in the restoration industry.
5:52
And so when I made that transition and I reached out to the group and said, hey, you know, I'm, I'm, I'm a professor now, I want to do research on things that are going to be important to you all.
What are some things that are going to that that you care about?
And so the first study we did was we looked at family business dynamics within the restoration industry.
6:11
Oh, wow.
So, So what I did is I took on the work of Okay.
That's important to you all.
I'm going to learn everything I can about family business.
And so I took time right up on family business.
I became, I mean I say this kind of tongue in cheek, but I, you know, I became a family business expert, right?
6:27
I I read all the academic articles on it.
I read all the the books on it.
I talked to family business consultants, found the right instrument.
We did all of our data collection.
You all might remember, you know, seeing some of the advertisements, but we we got all of our data back, analyzed our data and got it published in a peer reviewed journal, right.
6:46
Had some follow up articles.
So Restoration and Remediation magazine was super supportive of all of that, which Michael Balzano, I mean he's awesome dude.
He's he's still, I mean very supportive of of everything we're doing right now.
That's awesome.
And the reason why I did that is, you know, when you look at academic papers, I mean, sometimes you write an academic paper and then it just ends up being a conversation amongst academics.
7:09
And I wanted to do something different.
So, like that is important to what I do, what to what I do as an academic.
But I really wanted to do work that was going to be meaningful for industry.
And so that's why there's also been a heavy focus on the magazines and and and what we call professional, you know, literature, professional publications.
7:27
So what I did is I did that.
I went around the country, spoke at, you know, different events, different conferences, talked to different restoration groups.
And the feedback that I got was super supportive.
They said, hey, you know, Jake, thank you for doing this work.
You know, we love it.
But what can you do to help us with our personnel issues?
7:45
Like what can you do to help us get more people in the pipeline?
And that was just kind of a reoccurring theme, right?
Because after we did the family Business Research, we then did research on employee burnout in the restoration industry, right.
And it was similar deal and and that that article actually got published in one of the highest academic journals.
8:05
So it was through the ASCE, the Journal of Construction Engineering and Management.
And so we got that data published, had some more, you know, magazine professional literature articles that came out of that, did another tour, you know, talked to industry groups, spoke at a couple of conferences and it was the same deal, right.
8:23
So I, I get back and I'm talking to everybody and they say, hey, we love what you're doing.
We love that you're doing research for the industry.
But what can you do to help us figure out all these issues with getting more people in the pipeline?
And I don't want to sound redundant, but I, you know, had a couple more studies and it was, it was the same feedback every time, like hey, what can you do to help us?
8:43
So a lot of what we're trying to do right now with that degree concentration is addressing that, right?
We always got back to, hey, we love what you're doing, but what can you help us with this?
This is an answer to that.
Yeah.
OK.
So I'm really excited to start hearing you kind of breakdown your vision for what you guys are are building.
9:01
But you you just touched on it for a second.
You're like I was in the family business, I grew up in the industry.
I think that's super relevant.
So I think just to get us started, yeah.
Why?
Why do you care about the disaster response industry specifically?
Yeah.
One, I I think that the industry's just been really good to my family and and and I love the industry.
9:21
I mean, growing up, you know my dad he started our our family restoration business in in 1990 and my dad's an awesome dude, love the man.
He's just, yeah, he's my hero.
So he's he's a he's a great guy.
And so just what's that?
9:37
Why?
What?
Why?
Yeah, like give.
I know you probably have a lot of years of building a definition, but what?
What are the top 123 things that just kind of have sunk in and really made that connection?
Yeah, So I mean, my dad, you know, he, he loves the Lord, right.
9:54
And so, like growing up, growing up in a Christian home, you know, it wasn't something that that we just did as a family, wasn't just going to church.
I mean my parents really, both of them, they, they really, truly lived out their faith.
And just watching them do that in such an authentic manner, I think certainly influenced me.
10:13
So I love that, right.
So.
And my dad was super engaged.
So he was, I have my games, whether soccer or baseball.
I, you know, I had this itch for a season and live to get into martial arts.
And my dad was in high school.
He wrestled and so for him, you know, he just got into martial arts classes with me.
10:32
And so, you know, it was just, it was awesome doing that.
Yeah, he would take his fishing growing up and so it was always just like quality time.
It's always just a like a very well balanced man.
I mean he has a very strong business acumen, just a a super sharp businessman.
10:49
So it was always interesting to just watch him at work and then to see him at home and he just, I think he just did a great job of, I think, managing all of that.
I don't think it's very common for people to talk about entrepreneurialship and businesses and then in the same breath talk about that same person being really great at being present and at games and at home.
11:13
Yeah, that sounds pretty superhuman because I know it's not very common from first hand experience, right?
I've.
I've both messed that up and experienced the mess up.
Yeah, that's that's wild.
OK, so you've literally grew up in this.
Then what did that journey look like for you coming up in your restoration company?
11:31
Yeah.
So, you know, in high school it was, you know, it was doing board UPS, things like that and on the in the evenings and on weekends and then coming out of high school through college after college, you know, I just wore a lot of different hats, right.
So, I mean, I spent a lot of years estimating even when I wasn't an estimator, right.
11:50
So if I was running projects, I was also an estimator.
If I was general manager, I was also an estimator.
If I was working with the the emergency crews, I was also an estimator.
So or a lot of different hats worked on everything from you know marketing and sales to business development, running the office, working with all the different carriers.
12:10
You know we were pretty early on with a lot of the Tpas, so you know I got to know TPA worked really well.
What else?
OK, this is reaching back a little bit further than where we're at in the time frame that's in my head right now.
But I remember, like, growing up and this is, you know, pre my adult year.
12:26
So I mean, because we started the, my parents started the family restoration business in the downstairs bedroom of our house.
And I remember like coming in and my dad would have his scope notes, right?
And then he would have the secretary type them up on a typewriter.
And then I remember him coming home one night and just telling my mom like, hey, there's this new program, it's called Xactimate and and I think it's really going to change things and how we do stuff around here, right.
12:52
And then he was also getting a like an accounting software and and and other stuff like that.
So looking back, I learned on the DOS version of Xactimate and yeah, and he he wasn't wrong, that's for sure.
I mean, it definitely changed and shaped a lot of what we all do today.
13:08
And that was what about a 17 year run, right, that you were part of the business and actively engaged in the business?
Yeah.
So of my adult life, Yeah.
So, yeah.
So it was like 1990, seven 1998 until about probably 2016, OK Yeah, 2017.
13:28
OK, well, now what?
What triggered this?
By the way, Chris, I'm sorry, I've got like so many questions lined up in my head.
Jump in anytime, but what?
What education?
So here you are.
You're a restorer.
You've filled all the seats in this restoration company, you're working on 1718 years of that, and then all of a sudden you decide I'm going into academia.
13:47
What?
What shifted that?
My family is very enterprising, right?
So my parents are both of them.
You know, I've been talking about my dad.
My mom's awesome too.
I mean, she's she's an amazing business operator.
So we had the family restoration business.
We had a restaurant in in downtown Riverside called the Tamale Factory.
14:07
We had well, now our family has a a venue in downtown Riverside.
My dad just gotten into avocado farming, so just like hands in a lot of different things.
But you know, restoration was really, I mean the the main thing, especially for one of my brothers and I and then for my dad.
14:26
But the way that I got into the whole teaching thing was being an entrepreneur in town.
There was a College in town that had advisory boards like industry advisory boards.
So they would bring in industry people to speak into, you know, how they shape the academic programs and and you know the curriculum and things like that and so, so I was on a couple of those.
14:47
So there was a university in town where I sat on one for an entrepreneurship degree program and then for real estate development and construction program.
OK.
And it was after one of those board meetings where another board member was a department chair at another College in town.
15:05
And so we were sitting on this board together and it was after one of the meetings where he, you know, he came up to me and was like, hey, you know, I have this entrepreneurship class at my college.
You know, the guy that normally teaches a flaked on me, you know, it's about to start.
15:20
Would you be interested?
And I said, you know, don't give it a go.
And I loved it.
Like I got, I got home after my first night of class and I I went and sat down with my wife and I'm like, hey, that was, it was awesome.
And it's really hard to imagine myself doing anything else for the rest of my career.
15:37
And so I think from that point on, it was just kind of like a slow because then you know the other thing, my wife and I, you know, because she, she had a sacrifice too, that I had to go back to grad school to get my doctorate And that was a journey.
And so, you know, with three little kids.
15:52
Oh, wow.
And running a business and going to.
School.
Wow, that is wild.
You you committed to pain right?
Right out of the gate on that one.
It was we.
We joke about it because, yeah, I think that my first year of grad school, I think I had the flu, like, or flu symptoms three times.
16:12
And I was just laid up because, you know, yeah, so.
Much.
A lot.
Yeah.
What was it, man, So that not.
I mean, obviously something happened in that classroom.
What?
What is it?
What keeps you coming back to to teaching?
Yeah.
So I think, one, I love the learning process.
16:30
You know, I love education.
I love being a student.
You know, interestingly, like I was, I've always been deathly afraid of talking in front of people, right?
So that's something that I had it.
I just really had to work on.
And so, like, it wasn't that part of it, because that was something I just like.
16:46
Even now when I get up and I speak at conferences and things like that, it can be hard for me to to do that.
We joke, though.
So knowing that I was deathly afraid of talking in front of people, when my wife and I got married, we had a we had like like 4, like over 400 people at our wedding and and and I decided that I was going to say something at our wedding.
17:10
And so, like, I wrote down everything I was going to say.
I rehearsed it, memorized it, and I had it down.
And then I got up at our wedding reception and like, not a single word I wrote down, not even a point I wanted to convey, came out of my mouth.
17:26
We got it all on tape, on tape.
But I I think at that point too, I also said you know as uncomfortable it is as it is, I'm going to you know try and seek out you know, opportunities to just I think challenge myself in that area.
17:43
And so I think there is an element where that challenged me in, in an area where I was just really uncomfortable.
And so I think there was, there was that.
But I think ultimately I love that age group, you know when when just working with that, that age demographic.
So you know, the 18 to 21, I just have a lot of fun with them and and I think it's those are just very formative years when you're looking at the professional development of people.
18:08
And so I love being a part of that because even with what I do now, you know, I teach construction, estimating, I teach scheduling, I teach contracts and well, I like to focus on the technical aspects of what they're, you know, what we need to learn and what we need to cover.
I also focus heavily on, on just working with young people on hey, what does it look like to have a good attitude when you go to work, right.
18:30
What does a strong work ethic look like?
How can we be more teachable, right.
And and you know, how can we also just embrace that.
And you know, I think sometimes we focus a lot on on what it's like to manage people and how we want people to behave for us that we're trying to manage.
And at the same time, I don't think we reflect enough on thinking, you know, how am I as an individual for someone else to manage and and am I able to think beyond myself and am I able to put put on the lens of hey, what's in the best interest of the company, what's in the best interest of my teammates and how can I make a valuable contribution to that and and just set myself aside and so.
19:07
Enormous man.
Like just that's so foundational to someone's success.
I mean, that's almost more important than any other curriculum to, to a certain extent, right?
Yeah, that's phenomenal.
It's funny.
So as you're, I kind of want to get spun out, It's hard not to, I should say like just kind of your interpretation of the minds of of those students in terms of how they're thinking about the professional world.
19:30
I'd, I'd like to get into that, but I also don't want to stray away from getting some more clarity from you on the program as it sits today, what you're envisioning, what you guys are actually building.
I think ultimately that'll get us back to that.
We can start talking a little bit more about what you're hearing and seeing on the ground level because it's super relevant.
19:50
Yeah, absolutely.
So there's, there's a fundraising component with this, right.
So what we're trying to do right now is we're trying to raise $3,000,000.
And just for a little bit of context with this, whenever universities bring in money, most of the time they're taking overhead right off the top, right, They call it F and A.
20:07
It could be facilities and administration or financing administration, but usually it's going to be 30 to 60% that they take off the top and then the money that's leftover actually goes towards the cause.
What's great about our position right now is the university is very supportive of of this proposal.
20:24
And So what they've done and for our university in particular, it's 31.3% is what's typically taken off the top for this specific concentration.
And the the money we're raising right now, they're not going to take any overhead.
So that money goes into a foundation account and then there's a guaranteed 4% return every year on that money.
20:44
And so the first part is we, we need the faculty position in place in order to lead this, this degree concentration, right.
And so that faculty that $1,000,000 is going to cover $40,000, you know, return every year which a faculty salary and benefits and all those things are certainly much greater than that.
21:06
The university is going to cover that difference, right.
But the other thing the university has to do is with this faculty position.
So hypothetical, right.
And this is one of the things we're talking about is, is you know, hypothetical would be me being the one that that transit transitions into that role, right.
21:22
So what that does is that leaves a gap of my current course load.
And so then the university has to bring in somebody else, right, to to step in and take my current course load and and so they're going to cover that, right.
So that they're going to bring on another faculty member to take on that course load.
21:38
So it for the university, it's a pretty substantial investment on that end.
But in order to really get it going that first $1,000,000 is right now it's it's our number one highest priority because until we have that dedicated faculty line for the concentration, we really can't do a whole lot.
21:56
So we're not going to be able to develop the curriculum for it.
We're not going to be able to have somebody to teach it to market it, do all the, you know, the academic advising and all that stuff that needs to get done with it.
So that's that's priority #1.
The other $2,000,000 is, is going to go towards and same guarantee on that 4% return, so $80,000 return a year.
22:17
The university is not going to take overhead off the top of that.
And of that $2,000,000, that money is going to go towards student scholarships, right?
So students that are wanting to study restoration scholarships to send students to industry conferences, right.
So we'd love to send them to the experience.
22:34
RAA, the various conference, you know, any of the industry conferences to engage with the industry, go meet restoration contractors, do recruiting stuff there, get internships, get jobs, you know, whatever they got to do, we want to put them in the face of industry scholarships to send them to get industry certifications.
22:51
So they go get I, I CRC certifications they can go to, you know DeWalt school reads, you know, wherever they want to go, we want to find out and then go get, you know, X activate certifications so that that $2,000,000 in the return we'll get on that every year is going to go towards those types of endeavors.
23:08
We also want to be able to spend some of that money getting faculty trained because I think part of this is the more we train people to to to teach in this type of a program, it's going to overall it's going to benefit this type of effort long term more, right.
23:23
So I think that's one of the other challenges we have is just not having enough people to teach this going through the pipeline right now.
Yeah, it makes sense.
You know, in the interest there may be some people listening to me on on the one hand, raising 1,000,000 bucks or 3,000,000 bucks.
Yeah, in in some context is like holy cow, that's a big undertaking.
23:40
And then I think all of us are aware that there's some people listening to this podcast potentially where because of the size of their company, right.
We have a lot of huge industry players where a million, 3,000,000 bucks, not much at all.
You know, given the potential value of a program like this, a resource to be able to send their people to for further education so forth.
23:59
Can you cast some vision about where you'd like to take this program once that funding is in place?
I know you mentioned in a previous conversation that Purdue has has kind of paved the way for this kind of education, but but their course curriculum has been fairly limited in terms of actual specific restoration courses.
24:16
What cast some vision you know about about what kind of the scope of curriculum that you think that you guys can bring to this program and kind of the different areas of the business that it's going to touch?
Yeah, Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah.
So looking at and with with Purdue, so Randy Raps been heading that program up for for quite a few years.
24:35
Great guy they have a great program.
I know that I think he has some some online modules too which are which is great for the university especially for for companies that want to have their folks do some you know continuing education and get a certain certificate.
Randy wrote I think one of the first university level textbooks on this subject, more from like a federal response to like large scale disasters, so like Katrina and and so they've done a lot of great work over there at Purdue.
25:05
What I'm proposing right now to do with with our program would be to have a 5 course sequence.
So the first class would be like an introduction to restoration, right.
So it's where they're going to learn about structure drawing, maybe we'll even weave in an industry certification related to that.
25:22
They'll learn about fire damage repair.
They'll learn about, you know, what goes on with temporary shoring, if you have some type of impact, right, where you have a car that goes through a garage or goes through a roof or, you know, a plane flying into a house or a helicopter, whatever.
25:38
Right.
Just what?
What's the general nature of the work that restoration contractors do?
What's behind the science of drying, What's behind the science of cleaning and, you know, dealing with smoke and odor and, you know all that stuff.
And then from there we want to have a semester where they're doing emergency and a mitigation estimating right.
25:57
And so and we're going to take them right now I have a proposal to get about 14 docu sketch camera kits where we can start training them on that technology, but getting them acclimated and trained in emergency and EMF in mitigation estimating a semester where they're focused on like structural repairs, right.
26:17
So the put back, you know maybe have them do some fire damage repair estimates, just have a variety that that they can do for the the vertical stuff.
Have a semester where they do an internship right.
So we want them to plug in with with an internship and So what we want to do the overall aim with with the classes is to just get them well-rounded and prepared for a career in restoration.
26:42
And then all the 5th course would be project management.
So specifically a project management course specific to the restoration industry.
Now this is grounded by this other what would be?
I just want to make sure I use the the right term construction management program.
26:58
So it's it's part of the curriculum of a larger program, right, A larger degree?
Correct.
It would be a Bachelor of Science in Construction Management with a concentration in restoration.
OK.
Can you just kind of highlight for us what are kind of those other core elements then that this student's going to be developing in and getting exposed to?
27:19
Yeah, absolutely.
So during their, their core classes, they're taking plan reading, they're taking an introduction to estimating class, which I currently teach.
So right now all of our students except for one of our concentrations.
So we have two concentrations in construction management.
27:35
We have two concentrations within our concrete industry management program.
So are all of our construction students and one of our concrete concentration groups go through my estimating class and in my estimating class I teach Exactomate.
27:50
So Exactomate has been, they have been so amazing, so great to work with, so supportive of everything that we've done.
I can't say enough great things about them and their team and and how they've helped us because you know, by them working with us and and being our partners and allowing us to use the software.
28:08
It's been such a great tool for students to to learn how to estimate as a training tool.
Exactly me.
It's fantastic the way you can show them how the pricing works, all the components, what goes into the work.
It's just it's such a fantastic tool and so, so they're getting you know they're getting that through my estimating class.
28:27
They also have the option of getting their level 1 certification.
So whether students are going into restoration or not, they're getting some of the tools right now as we speak even before this concentration gets going.
They learn they have class in in contracts, so plan reading, estimating contracts, project management, they're learning about materials and methods.
28:48
So I mean, they get, they get a very well-rounded construction education.
That's pretty awesome.
What what about this like soft skill part?
I can't remember I you were talking specifically to that, obviously working with the student age, how's that getting woven in there?
29:05
Because clearly it's a priority for you.
How's that happen under the program essentially?
Yeah.
So you know it's it's really on each instructor, right.
So we don't have like a a soft skill class specifically they do have the option of taking electives.
29:21
So some students will take electives and their electives might be related to sales or marketing or accounting, you know.
So they have flexibility in how they do that.
Not not every, we don't have a class that specifically focuses on that.
So for me personally, I just weave it into discussions that I have with students throughout the semester and I'll talk about, you know, whenever the opportunity presents itself, if we're talking about concepts related to project management, you know, we'll talk about the technical aspects of project management.
29:53
But then we'll also talk about some of the other practical things that come up as you're managing a project, like how do we work in teams, how do we work well with others, We'll talk about emotional intelligence.
And so it's through just the, I guess the natural progression of going through that material.
30:08
We're all, personally, I will weave in those discussions and then quite often, you know, in class students end up asking me questions, you know, about stuff and it just leads to just great dialogue where we're able to tackle a lot of that stuff.
So you know, a question that's been percolating the back of my head is 17 plus years in the industry yourself, right.
30:29
What we haven't talked about yet is what what have been some of your biggest learning experiences and takeaways from operating in the industry that like are kind of in the backdrop of your teaching with students.
Like what are like, what are some of the practical learning experiences or challenges that you and your family overcame in the family restoration business that are just kind of inform your teaching and this desire to create a program around this.
30:56
Like do you do you mind shipping some of the wins and and challenges that you encountered?
Yeah.
So I think you know some of the most impactful challenges were related to I think how I mishandled situations and just looking back and reflecting on a conversation with someone where maybe I was too abrasive or abrupt.
31:15
And then I think you know, over time I think if we, if we try and learn from those experiences and if we just have meaningful reflection on it, we could think, you know, yeah, I definitely could have handled that better.
And looking back and realizing that there were, I mean there were a lot of people I had to go back and apologize to because of how I conducted myself.
31:32
You know, maybe I lost my temper and I think growth wise for me personally it's it's looking back at some of those things and and just realizing that you know, I didn't have to be abrasive in order to hold someone accountable, right.
And I guess just trying to learn from some of those experiences, you know, when it comes to I think the restoration part and and just having an appreciation for it.
31:55
I remember there was a loss.
I walked and this was probably, I don't know as well, over 20 years ago.
And I remember that, you know, I just had a like a real quick description of what we were going to go in there and do like.
I knew that there was a broken window and I knew we had a replacement flooring.
32:10
Right.
I didn't know all of what happened in there.
So I knock on the door, husband and wife come into the door, they take me to where the damage was.
And I just learned that the 17 year old son had just killed himself like just a few days prior.
Right.
So here I was bringing in a technical skill set.
32:28
I'm trying to, you know, I want to fix the floor, paint the walls and and do what we got to do.
But then it it just opened my eyes to the fact that, you know, we're not just a part of like this technical professional that's coming in.
You end up being so much more to a lot of the customers you go and visit, right.
32:44
You end up you're you're trying to have a business relationship, but at the same time they're they're living in the home and they have like a real need.
So for a lot of people, I think with a lot of contractors, you end up being there, you know, the hairdresser, their bartender, their, you know, therapist like you know, whatever.
33:00
And so I I saw a great opportunity just to connect with people in such a time of deed because they didn't ask for this yet.
Here we are.
And I think unfortunately there probably are a lot of folks that go in there and they're just they don't connect with them on that level.
33:16
They just get in and get out and there's there's such an opportunity to help people recover from disasters.
And I think how we if we can appreciate that, I think we can we can also serve them better.
Just I think being sympathetic towards those things and just understanding that there there's a lot that went on, right?
33:34
Because here they just lost their son and I'm helping them pick out new flooring and paint colors and you know, it's just it's rough.
Yeah, it's like a double edged sword.
I always felt like it's like there's the downsides of it because, you know, somebody didn't spend 6 months planning and being all excited about go day, you know, with obvious reasons they're hit blindsided by this event or whatever the case may be.
33:57
So there's there's some challenges right when people are in their worst, but there's something pretty darn rewarding that not only are we just doing work and and spending somebody's money, but we're doing work that ultimately is helping bring their life back together.
And that was always kind of the thing that once I was exposed to the industry the first time, I didn't want to leave because of that.
34:18
Even though I had had plenty of points where I was like, man, this is a, this can be frustrating experience, you know?
Yeah, it's it's fun being in the industry that I feel like still creates superheroes.
And I I felt like that's like in my mind it's like gosh, how can we get this message out to more people that this is not just a construction industry, it's a construction industry where we literally have the opportunity to be heroes.
34:43
And if we really take advantage of that and live into that, it's a wildly rewarding experience.
But it just seems like the the pipeline has is not exactly opened up to full let's let's put it that way.
You know, it's so challenging. liftify.com.
35:02
Forward slash blood Lite.
You've heard Brandon and I talk a bunch of times about the importance of Google reviews.
Maybe even heard our episode with Zach Garrett, the CEO and founder.
Recency, consistency.
Two of the most important things when it comes to maximizing the benefit from your Google reviews.
35:19
Why not use an outside partner?
Liftify is targeting 20 to 25% conversion, right?
So if you do 1000 jobs a year, you ought to be adding right now 200 to 250 reviews a year, every single year.
If you're not doing that, you owe it to yourself to get a free demo from liftify.com.
35:36
See their system, see how it works, see how affordable it is.
I promise you you'll thank us liftify.com forward slash.
Blood Light.
You know, we spend a lot of money and a lot of attention trying to get that first call.
And one of the things that we do once it happens is sometimes we leave it to chance, right?
35:53
Who picks up the phone?
How do they respond?
How do they walk that client into a relationship with us?
Well, one of the benefits of partnering with a team like answerforce.com is we can systemize that.
We can make it more consistent.
We can also have backup for when our teams need that help, right?
36:09
Somebody goes on vacation, somebody's out sick, you know, we get a storm surge, we get cat event.
All sorts of things can have an impact on how we receive that client, but the most important thing is they need to know that they've chosen the right team.
And so answer force.com can support you, be a bolt on partner to help you consistently produce an awesome onboarding experience with that first call with your client.
36:32
So answer force.com/bloodlife.
That's great.
CNR magazine.
We're friends with all the folks at CNR, Michelle and her team, they do a great job of keeping their ear to the ground and reporting all the important information from our industry, right.
You want to stay up on all the M&A activity and what the latest best practices are for selling your company successfully, right?
36:53
She's got that great articles about all the four quadrants of our business, right?
CNR is constantly pushing out great material and leveraging great writers and subject matter experts in our industry.
It is the water cooler of our industry.
So if you're not subscribed, go to cnrmagazine.com.
37:10
Follow them on LinkedIn, follow Michelle on LinkedIn.
Trust us, if you're trying to stay on top of everything happened in the industry, your best destination is cnrmagazine.com.
You guys, many of you have already heard about Actionable Insights and the training and the technical expertise that they bring to the industry.
37:28
But how many of you are already leveraging the Actionable Insights profile for Xactime?
That's the game changer.
It's essentially an AI tool that's walking alongside of you as you write your estimate, bringing things to your attention that should be added that could be considered all of them.
37:46
Items that increase our profitability, increase the effectiveness and the consistency of that scope.
And it can do anything from helping a new team member assimilate as some estimating best practices.
And it also helps the grizzled vets add back that few percent that we've just forgot over time.
38:04
So Actionable insights.
Get insights.org forward slash floodlight and take a look at what the Actionable Insights exactimate profile could be doing for you and your team.
A lot of our industry we fall in because it becomes so familiar and normal, right.
38:19
We we fall into the technical, we just we revert to the technical knowledge and prowess because that also you know, can feed our egos.
We have the answers, we can fix your problem and I think a lot of times we just, we don't have that whole the emotional support like how we make people feel by recognizing sort of the situation we're in and the context around it.
38:41
Instead we can just hyper focus on the technical and miss that and it's it's much less satisfying.
I think when we're totally oriented around the technical and we can just get caught up in how chaotic the work is, we lose sight of that.
You know of it, Yeah.
It's interesting, Jake, as I'm kind of like thinking through some of the things that you've been saying.
39:01
I mean, obviously one of the challenges that I feel like we face on a regular basis is I think we misunderstand the current generation coming into the workforce.
Like we've got a ton of assumptions.
We have a ton of, let's call it, opinions on what's in alignment, what's not, what they like, what they don't like.
39:19
And I think if we're honest, because I at least this is what I'm experiencing with my own kids, I feel like 90% of my knowledge is actually assumption.
And when I dig in and start asking questions, actually I've got a lot to learn.
What are you experiencing first hand with this, this age group?
39:36
Because not only are the obviously active students, but this is the workforce that's coming into our businesses right now.
Help me understand the differences between reality and all the dumb assumptions that I'm making about an entire generation 'cause I know, I know it's happening.
39:52
Yeah, we all have them, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, I mean we hear all the people talking.
You know, I know it's Simon Sinek and you know there's a lot of people that that have weighed in on this and and you know how do we deal with this this younger generation, the ones that that grew up where everyone got a trophy and that have been sheltered.
40:10
And and certainly I I think we're we're seeing that that the consequences of that right you know helicopter parents and that certainly has had an influence on this generation I think.
You know but you know the interesting thing when I, when I consider that is you know sometimes we'll we'll hear like there's certain things we'll we'll behaviors we'll watch and we'll immediately pin that towards a millennial, right.
40:35
And say oh you know they're stuck on their device.
You know that hey you know another millennial they're they're on TikTok.
But what's interesting is I, I know some boomers who are if we're if we're going to use that as a standard, I know some boomers that are more millennial than millennials, right.
And so I I think part of it is generationally, yeah, there's things that we see emerging with that, that every generation is different and there are things like that.
40:59
I think one of the things that I'm most concerned with isn't something that's just affecting this younger generation.
It's it's like a lot of that technology.
And so you're hearing this is like, I mean personal bias you hear coming out of my mouth right now.
So I just want to like throw out that disclaimer.
I just think that social media and devices and all of that is I think there's unintended consequences and and I think it has had cognitive effects that have come with it, right.
41:26
So if you think about how we've externalized our, our brains to these devices, right.
So knowledge is something where if I, if I want to know something, well, I don't have to memorize it.
I can just, I can Google it real quick, right.
I don't have to memorize phone numbers anymore.
I can just, you know pull up.
41:41
Yeah.
I can't remember the last time I memorized a phone number, you know.
But then I think even looking beyond that in a like social media and tick tock and and the way that people get glued to their devices and we got to consider what are the the implications for our social skills, our attention spans, our situational awareness.
42:04
Like, you know, all these things that I think are really important and you know, and while I can't cite the specific study right now and I I can get you the links if you need them, but I do know that there there's a lot of evidence that suggests that, you know, it's making us all Dumber, right?
42:20
And so I think.
I can argue against it, but you know, I'm sure that's a hot topic for another another session.
Yeah.
So you so you're seeing that and I mean and and if we're honest like I think that's where some of these kind of category assumptions, right and stereotypes come from is that we can obviously see some real life implications that that is certainly the case I think especially the one where you you're saying around situational awareness.
42:46
I mean, I catch myself sometimes stepping out of our office here to walk towards my truck and I'm trying to do my last minute wrap up e-mail or text message.
And you know, I get to my pickup and I realize, you know, I just walked three blocks and I have no idea what happened in three blocks.
43:02
Yeah, you know so then you you think about going to a disaster response scenario, disaster restoration scenario project site.
Yeah that that could certainly be at play.
But I think too would have I, I want to kind of dig into a little bit is, but a lot of that stuff is not everything either.
43:20
Like we make these assumptions that that's who they are.
Like we help create their identity that alls they are these things which are normal challenges that you and I are even facing as older adults.
Yeah.
What are we missing the mark on?
Like what gets you excited to work with that group?
43:37
You must see something in them that gets you up and motivated to create an entire program to support them.
So what are we missing?
What is the opportunity for us in this generation of workers that's coming online?
Yeah, I think for that age group, I love seeing the excitement because everything in their minds is just right on the horizon, right?
43:58
They have careers right on the horizon.
And, and so I see an eagerness and an excitement about just getting ready for that, right, Stepping into adulthood, stepping into, you know, whatever that next phase of life is, whether it's getting married and having kids or just being more independent or moving to that state that they wanted to move to or just taking on that job.
44:19
I think for a lot of our students, one of the things that excites me to watch them do is to get their job offers right.
So we're in a discipline where we have pretty close to 100% placement rate, which not every major on college campuses can can really, you know, really has those bragging rights, which we do.
44:38
And so for them, we have students that right before they graduate, sometimes several months before they graduate, they have multiple offers in hand, right.
And then they're weighing all of these offers.
So they have, you know, an offer from this contractor and that can take them to Florida and they have an offer from this contractor that can take them to Texas or they can stay here with their family or you know, or wherever.
44:57
So.
So I think there's there's just a lot of excitement that I have watching them go through that I think missed opportunities.
So we had our first restoration industry conference here at MTSU this past fall.
And I can say 100% that all of our students that connected with the restoration contractors that were here and in the group in general were excited about restoration.
45:23
I mean all of them now want to go into restoration and they're pursuing jobs and restoration.
And so I think an opportunity for the industry right now would be to just engage more young people, right.
So we had a, we had a career event this last fall and we had about 175 employers on campus production, home builders, commercial contractors.
45:44
So of of those 175, how many do you think were restoration contractors?
I hate to hear the number because I know it's not high.
OK.
There's one, right.
So I think, I think a missed opportunity for for restoration contractors is, is making those connections because it's not a hard sell, right, Because here here's another part of our one, it's it's gratifying work, it's challenging work.
46:10
There's an excitement about, you know, the, the nature of the work that we do, right.
Whether because you're still working on structures, you get to see all kinds of crazy things.
So, you know, on my end, I think for my wife and I, having a restoration background has really helped us with our real estate investment.
46:25
Right.
So it's like if I go to buy a house, you know, I have a good sense as to, you know, hey, what's that going to, what's it going to take to fix that?
Do I want to walk from that?
Right.
Asbestos doesn't scare me.
Mold doesn't scare me.
Like, you know, there's certain, well, depends on the mold, but in the situation with it.
46:41
But you have a really good sense, right?
So that's a very practical skill set that you can develop in restoration that could help you with your investing, right.
So when students hear about that, that excites them because a lot of them are thinking about buying their next home or growing their custom home building business or their real estate empire, you know, all these different things.
47:01
And so it's great training for that.
The other thing that I think restoration contractors can share, which is I think a missed opportunity right now is the and we all know this, right, But there's always going to be fluctuations in the economy, right?
So whether it's interest rates, recessions, whatever happens, right, there's always going to be fluctuations in any industry, right?
47:23
You know, when money gets more expensive, a lot of the times that custom home building tends to dip, right?
The remodels tend to dip, right.
When money gets more expensive, the commercial development sometimes could slow down, right?
Or sometimes some of that stuff completely stops.
Well, what's unique about restoration?
47:40
And again, I know you guys know this, but it's doesn't matter who's the president, doesn't matter if it's Donald Trump or Joe Biden, right?
Disasters still happen.
It doesn't matter what interest rates are, right?
At the end of the day, it's, it's probably 1.
Nothing's recession proof, I don't think.
But we have a niche that's very resilient to fluctuations in the economy, right?
47:59
And so and and with that right, again, doesn't matter what's going on, you're always going to have floods, fires, landslides, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, trees falling on buildings, cars driving into them.
And it's always got to be fixed.
And so when students hear that as part of the proposition, they also get really excited about.
48:19
That's awesome.
It's so interesting to me.
I'm thinking to myself, like we were actually talking a little bit before we got started, just this idea of how desperate most industries are for for competent employees, right?
And we got kind of a whole thing we could do on that.
48:35
But obviously our industry and anybody kind of listening to the show, they know they're suffering from some struggles and some frustrations with this.
But then one restoration company shows up when 150 regular contractors, right, and different commercial entities show up.
48:51
What, why, what, what is it that we're missing?
Is it is it that we don't think that those programs are there?
Do we not connect the dots that general contracting is still pretty overlap?
And in terms of what we do like, why is it that one shows up versus the 149 other contractors that show up?
49:11
Yeah.
So I think maybe the industry as a whole just isn't as aware.
You know since we did that conference, we've received $100,000 commitment from Blue Sky Restoration and they're now plugged in and and coming to our events, we got $100,000 commitment from BMS and they're now coming to our career events.
49:31
And so you know it, it is picking up right.
So now, now we're up to three, right and growing, right.
So I think you know we're going to continue to to send that message because if we have a couple hundred students coming through the program every year, they're hearing the message from these other groups.
49:49
And I, I just want to challenge the restoration industry as a whole to start reaching out to high school, start reaching out to junior colleges, start reaching out to the universities, reach out to the construction management programs, reach out to business students, marketing students.
Right.
Because I don't think there's, there's not going to be this silver bullet to it.
50:07
I think it's just sharing with the industry like, hey, we just need as an industry, we need to be more intentional about reaching out to young people, educating young people.
Because there is an exciting story to be told about the restoration industry.
Yeah, it's a great industry to get plugged into.
50:22
And I think if more people just knew about it, it would help alleviate some of that pressure that that a lot of these restoration contractors are feeling right now, which I think every industry's feeling it.
Oh.
Yeah.
Well, so I have another theory on this because you know we've actually Brandon and I and when we were operating the field, we we reached out to various high school like trades programs, universities, construction management programs.
50:45
We actually have a really, really strong construction management program, Oregon State University kind of in our backyard.
And here's the perception I ran into because I have a number of buddies who are in construction management too work for big, you know, general contractors.
And I think the perception amongst a lot of students that are getting their BA in construction management is that the real money is working for these big half billion, billion dollar GCS right out of school.
51:11
And and like you said, like you experiencing your own construction program, these GCS are lined up to take these new grads and offer them a junior project management role or you know some kind of entry level role starting them at 6065 thousand bucks.
51:27
And there's just this perception among students that the real money, the real opportunity is with these big GC corporate GCS.
And I think what's funny is we've gotten plugged more and more into our client relationships around the country.
Is that like we're able in the restoration industry to be very competitive.
51:46
Like one of my buddies is a AVP at a local GC that I work out with here.
He talks to me about their compensation and how they pay.
And they're a big, you know, $300 million GC there.
There's not much of A delta between what they're paying their estimators and project managers and the opportunity they're providing and what many of our five and $10 million family run restoration companies are actively paying and offering their people.
52:11
And in some cases there's more of an open door in the restoration in these smaller companies to run the company or own it in relatively short order.
I mean, we see some incredible like American Dream kind of stories coming out, a restoration where you go work for a $300 million GC, you got a long Rd. before you're owning or leading that company, whereas you go take a 65 KPM or estimator job right out of school at a restoration company.
52:39
You might have an opportunity to buy a portion of that or run the company in your first five years if you're awesome, right, And you execute.
And so I'm just curious, have have you seen that perception is, is that a perception of starting to break down in your view?
What do you think about that?
Yeah, it absolutely is.
52:56
And and I think for for us with looking back at this, this conference we had here in the fall, we had executives from Belfour, We had Aaron Bronco and his team, David and Greg.
We had, I mean just executives from all over the country come in and they were talking about, they were sharing numbers, was to take here's what you can make as an estimator, here's what you can make as a project manager, here's what a career progression looks like.
53:22
And that's what got them so excited because they realized that hey, it's really not that different And then when and then they get excited about the nature of the work that restoration contractors do, you know and so and like you said, it's and in a lot of instances, you know the restoration industry if you look at all the different niches in construction is much bigger, right.
53:42
And and I think one of the things this might begin a little bit of sidetrack, but but it does relate to what we're talking about here.
So we are a unique construction school, right.
We're the school of concrete and construction management, right.
There's not many concrete industry programs.
The concrete industry program here at MTSU was developed because industry saw a need.
54:03
They needed more people in the pipeline.
So about 20 years ago, the industry got together and started the first concrete industry management program here at MTSU, which is a very, I mean this is a very niche program, right?
There's only a handful across the country.
So you have MTSU, there's one in Texas, there's one in New Jersey, South Dakota, Chico out in California.
54:23
So there's there's a handful, right.
The concrete industry based on numbers that we saw this last year is about $110 billion a year industry.
So you have about 70 billion a year that's concrete contracting and about another 40 billion that's ready mix, right.
54:40
So our new building that we're in right now is huge building like $40 million building ballpark somewhere in there was funded enlarged by the state of Tennessee and then also from our concrete industry partners.
So we're talking about $110 billion year industry that helps start our program, help fund our new building has helped start up other concrete industry programs across the country because the concrete industry realized hey we have a need for people.
55:06
So we're going to help create our own pipeline.
And because they created this pipeline, our graduates that have gone through our concrete industry management program for the last two decades are now company presidents, vice presidents, general managers, operations managers, entrepreneurs, right.
55:24
And and and they're helping fill the need for the concrete industry.
And now they're at a point where they raise $2,000,000 a year for concrete programs and concrete industry scholarships for students, right.
So let's go back to this.
So $110 billion a year, how big is the restoration industry?
55:42
What, 2/22/30?
Yeah.
So, yeah, I mean low estimates, you know 180 billion in like low 200 billions, right, depending on how you classify work catastrophes, right.
You have a huge cat event that could just throw the numbers way up there, right.
So let let's say it's, it's it's like close to twice the size of the concrete industry, right.
56:03
So I think it's, it's time for the restoration industry to start thinking about how something like this can get formed right.
And again that's why we want to bring have an Advisory Board, have Advisory Board members from the industry speaking into how are we going to develop the curriculum, how are we going to grow it, how are we going to spend the money on the scholarships.
56:24
And you know because ultimately that's the vision is figuring out how can we have meaningful careers for young people.
And and help fill this pipeline that's going to alleviate some of this need because we really need to start working in earnest on the next generation of leaders for the restoration industry in our concrete industry management program.
56:42
They've they've really created the road map for it.
Not that we would do everything identical.
Whoever comes in and sits on this Advisory Board with us is going to, you know, have direct access to them and say, hey, what are some of the things you guys have done, how can we learn from it, right.
56:57
And then I think there's just so many valuable lessons we can draw from as we try to build this out for the restoration industry.
It's it's interesting because it seems like whoever right there had to be a handful of personalities in that industry that just decided, well, I I don't know what this is going to take, but I'm just going to be a voice that continues to seek input and start gathering right some influence.
57:20
And it sounds like we're just looking for that handful of people in our industry to step in and say we don't have it all figured out, but we got to start talking about this in a real loud manner.
Because I think it's it's kind of like this idea is like when you start talking about these numbers.
Chris alluded to this earlier like 3,000,000 bucks.
57:36
You know you spread that over let's say the RIA members, you're talking pennies in conjunction with what we do and the kind of financials that we're moving through our businesses to put together $3,000,000 directly from our industry doesn't seem that difficult in terms of context.
57:53
The challenge is getting a handful of people to say it consistently enough and in front of the right group right to get some of that momentum in that steam.
Bill, does it seem like this advisory group then becomes that, is that, that formation of that voice that can then start going back out to our industry peers and partners and start raising the flag of, hey, there's a real opportunity here for all of us.
58:15
Is that what you're seeing so?
That that that is a huge task for the the advisory group as one we want to yeah have people that are plugged in industry who see the value of what we're doing and can help go out and and help us make all of these asks.
Because again, I, you know, my goal or our goal is to to have $1,000,000 raised by the end of this year.
58:36
And another part of that too is, you know my boss, the director of our school is, is, is very supportive of of what we're doing.
And so it is great to have the support.
And then the university is also, there's a lot that the university is going to put into this, right?
58:51
So there's there's staffing that goes on with it, right.
And so while we're asking for the three million that's going to go towards the faculty line at scholarships, there's also all the other stuff that that goes on with it.
So we need academic advisors.
We need again that that faculty line to come in from behind.
59:06
We have something called the academic common market, right.
And So what that does is that allows us to offer in state tuition to states that are part of an agreement that we have.
Usually it's bordering states, but we do have states along the East Coast as well and that allows us to charge out of state students in state tuition, right.
59:27
So they're not because it is a unique degree program and so by applying to do that.
They're into sorry, I totally cut you off.
They're into that program then through a a fellow sister university or education location.
Yeah, a state, yeah.
59:43
OK, got it.
OK.
Yeah.
And then so through that, there's a difference in revenues.
Obviously there's more revenues when a university brings in out of state students, but that that isn't an area where we would be willing to to bypass that.
That additional revenue list is charged in state tuition for folks that want to major in this and and aren't from Tennessee, and they can still get in state tuition for it.
1:00:06
That's super rad.
OK.
So I think it comes down to I have a habit of just getting super psyched about this kind of stuff and then I want to jump all over it.
But there's no doubt in my mind that as people are listening, they're like, OK, yes, I've I'm frustrated with the fact that I don't have much young blood coming into the pipeline.
1:00:25
I'm hearing there's these things that we can contribute or participate in.
I think one of the things that that's becoming more and more common now too and and part of this just to plug RIAI think RIA and their advocacy board is really starting change the shape of hey in unit we can actually accomplish a whole bunch as an industry.
1:00:44
And I think there's some momentum building behind these groups that are trying to unify our voice.
Obviously there's potential for that here.
What like I'm assuming right now you are the go to contact.
So if we wanted to send people, or if people are curious, learning more about what you're seeing and looking how they can participate, where are we sending people right now for that?
1:01:05
Yeah, straight to me.
Yeah, they can call myself, text me, e-mail me.
Yeah, they.
So here's what we'll do, because I I don't want to necessarily.
Well, I guess it probably doesn't matter, but I won't say it over the air.
Why don't you.
I'll follow up with you after the show.
1:01:21
I'm going to gather some of that core information, a contact information and we'll put that in the notes of the show both on our YouTube channel and on the actual podcast host itself.
And then folks as they listen to the episode, just refer to the show notes and you should be able to see whatever version of contact method you want to reach out to Jake and start seeing what it is that you could potentially be doing to participate in this.
1:01:47
And then in terms of Vince coming up, so do you are you guys going to have another one this year in fall or what was the timing on that?
We are.
So it'll be in November, OK.
And so in a lot of that will be going through we'll we'll have some materials that go out want some announcements that go out that's also going to go out through business networks less Cunningham and and through his group.
1:02:07
And then I I try to make it to to events throughout the year.
So I just spoke at the Elevate conference in Salt Lake City.
So I was there I'm going to be at the experience in a couple weeks out in Chattanooga and so I'm I'm trying to make it around as well and and just to to see groups and and help share spread this message.
1:02:28
So I got a plug here, dude.
OK, so we have some friends over at a company called Know.
How Have you heard of Know How yet?
Yes.
OK.
So Leighton, he's their founder and CEO.
You guys should have a discussion.
Their company is very unique in the way that they're representing themselves in our industry.
1:02:45
The way they're partnering with us, they are a data-driven company as a SAS company in general.
They do some really interesting things, helping steward us from the perspective of collecting what they call, I think state of the industry information.
There's so much data that they gather.
1:03:02
They're a really smart team.
I can't imagine a world where the two of you could not find some synergy together in in terms of their focus on the industry and what you're trying to accomplish on the student side.
So I just, I'm going to make that plug latent.
I'll I guess maybe sorry later if I wasn't supposed to do that but I I would talk to them my friend.
1:03:20
I think you guys have a lot of stuff in common.
And then guys if if you're listening to this show, I, you know this isn't here at HHB we don't go out of our way to plug companies or entities.
That's not really the point of the show other than our paid sponsors by the way.
1:03:36
But in this particular scenario, this is a this is the beginning, This is the foundation moment where our voice can actually contribute in a real legacy way to begin talking to students and introducing them to an industry.
1:03:52
We're desperate for their talent and we are part of a very unique opportunity if we're honest about it.
Like this is 1 hell of an industry.
You know, we, I won't use the F word in this particular situation, but we've gone as far as creating shirts that says it like we have and love this industry.
1:04:10
And man, I think it would be so fun to watch a whole new generation of young men and women be excited proactively and come seek us out versus accidentally getting sucked in and then never leaving like the most of us experience.
So man, take advantage of it.
1:04:26
Reach out to Jake and dude, we just really appreciate you coming and and taking on this lift.
This is really freaking awesome.
Fun conversation, man, Yeah.
Thanks for having me.
Awesome, my man.
OK, Well, we'll be following up with you.
I have a lot of confidence that we may be speaking again here in the next handful of months, maybe get you back, get some updates on what's been happening, how the fundraising is going.
1:04:49
And then I think there's a strong chance that our team and and the Floodlight team may be participating in some of that energy as well.
So we're excited to follow up with you and see how we can help contribute to what's going on as well.
So thanks again, my friend.
Appreciate you.
That'd be great.
You guys are awesome.
Thank you.
All right, everybody.
1:05:08
Hey, thanks for joining us for another episode of Head Heart and Boots and.
If you're enjoying the show but you love this episode, please hit follow Formerly known as subscribe.
Write us a review, or share this episode with a friend.
Share it on LinkedIn.
Share it via text, Whatever.
1:05:24
It all helps.
Thanks for listening.