0:07
Welcome Back To The Head heart and Boots podcast.
I'm Chris, and I'm Brandon.
Join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses we leave.
The of this industry.
What is up, everybody?
0:22
Welcome to the restoration rundown podcast, the podcast that dedicated to you.
The restoration and cleaning business owner.
My name is Ben.
I am your host and I'm the CEO of Ironclad restoration marketing, where I help.
The restoration and cleaning business owners.
Get more sales just by getting their internet marketing, right.
0:39
Speaking of sales, we talked a lot about digital marketing, right?
How do we how are we going to drive the most leads to your business through all the different digital channels?
And we talked about this quite extensively but there's another part of this that a lot of people miss and that's just the boots on the ground regular old sales, pushing your business out there, growing your brand and building relationships with people, today's guests.
1:02
Now we have to We've had them on before.
Great guys, I love talking to them.
They have a business out in the Pacific Northwest called floodlight group consulting.
They help restoration business owners with everything related to their business.
Specifically, these guys are leadership gurus, we talked last time we had them on the podcast, a lot about their background and Leadership and how important it is to have the proper leadership in place in your business.
1:26
But today, we're going to talk a little bit about sales and then we're going to dive into some more leadership things that they've been working on and get to know them a little bit better.
So, I want you guys to help me.
Welcome, Chris and Brandon from the floodlight group, what's up, guys?
Hey, buddy.
Hey, how's it going?
1:43
It's going good.
It's going good.
You know, it's great.
I was texting, Brandon like, I love your little video intro, but it gave my, it gave me butterflies.
I felt like I was standing on the side and Auditorium.
I was getting ready to go up on stage and started feel the butterflies hit.
I'm like oh man, we're going on TV or something here.
2:00
This is cool.
You are on TV and you're literally going to be in front of Is of people you guys, I don't know how you're not shaking your whole entire computer monitor right now with we've benefited like I am.
But yeah.
No, thank you, I appreciate that.
2:15
It's, you know, we've got, I've got a lot of good people out there doing podcast like you guys, you know, your head hearts and Boots podcast and I'm sure everybody's heard of by this point.
So you guys are putting a lot of great things out there and that's why we want to bring you on.
We want to try to siphon off some of the people that up pay attention to you and like get let our audience get to know you guys a little bit better.
2:34
Guys are really cool.
We had you on, it's been a few months nowadays, these years or like months and like, days and minutes it just time is flying by as I'm sure you guys know.
So what's new?
Why don't you know what?
Before we get into everything that we wanted to talk about, once you guys both introduce yourselves, give me a little bit about your background, will just touch on the cliff notes of it just in case so we can make sure everybody is familiar with you guys.
2:58
Sure.
Yeah, go ahead, Brandon.
Okay.
All right.
Well I mean just briefly.
I'm My kind of background leading up to getting exposed to our industry was all military and construction.
So the that I spent about eight years in the, in the Infantry in the Army and then I mean that's where it kind of the backbone of my leadership development really started and it's where I was practicing ground for me as a young man.
3:22
That's really where I got exposed to being responsible for people and real live environments and very dangerous environments at times.
Did work with with different types of Construction Industries and then Finally got exposed to our industry in 2010 and I haven't looked back.
3:38
It's just been a real powerful industry to be a part of.
We've I've loved the journey, I've grown up on the operation side.
So I'm really keyed in on operational systems process leadership development, that's been the track that essentially I've had as we've grown in the industry.
3:57
So let's Cliff Notes, I guess, speed version.
Yeah, that was good in for anybody that's not watching live on TV on.
Is going to be on Pay-per-view pretty soon but that's Brandon Reese and he is one of the founders of floodlight group and one of the hosts of the head hardboots podcast and next up.
We've got mr.
4:13
Chris nordyke also from the same two places.
Yeah.
Brandon Reese aka the mustache mustache I am Chris nordyke AKA The Beard.
Yeah, I know it's funny because we, you know, our creative director who came up with our logo for the podcast, right?
4:33
It's got the kind, And of caricature of the beard and mustache heads.
And I used to be one of those guys that every 6 or 12 months, I'd shave everything off.
I'd kind of change it up.
And it's like, well now it's on the left.
So there's think I do the same exact thing.
4:51
I'll have a rowdy, rowdy beard, and it'll go into a mustache for a little while and then it's gone.
And then the Beards back, I've never consistent with my look like a dude, you can't like the whole Nordic Viking feel.
I feel like Yeah, bring you guys back together, man.
5:07
You know something I haven't cut my hair you gonna which in look at that and a half years, dude.
I've never had a shaved head my whole life.
So everybody looking I got a surprise for everybody who's in watching this, the things I'm just straight lace, you know, but I got long hair.
5:23
I'm a, I'm a wild wild guy.
You know what I mean?
I caught some glimpses of that and some of your content.
Okay, good guys.
Got a main.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, yeah, let's go.
Alright, yeah, Chris nordyke.
So I am the sales kind of guy of floodlight.
5:41
There's a lot of other things I'm passionate about, but I kind of anchor, the sales side of the business for us and my very first sales experience.
I didn't grow up like as an entrepreneur.
You know, those classic lemonade stand.
I did have a lawn mowing business and that but it wasn't like, but I never had a guide around me.
6:01
My dad was a schoolteacher, mom was a nurse had We create upbringing, but I didn't have like a entrepreneur figure in my life.
So I was just mowing lawns to make cash, you know?
But my first sales gig was Cutco Cutlery, the Cutco knives gig.
6:17
In fact, some people listening may have done that in college.
Why did that thing?
And I did pretty well with it.
I ended up becoming a branch manager with them.
When I was 19, I moved to Los Angeles.
I opened up a sales office.
They're recruited sales reps.
Train them how to cut rope and kind of Any with the super shears anyway, that kicked off my my sales career and I would turn me on to Holy Cow, you can get paid to talk.
6:43
Like this is crazy.
You know and and of course one thing led to another and I've owned small businesses and then prior to coming to the restoration industry was in the insurance business.
So I was a State Farm agent own, my own Agency for several years.
I had a team of people working for me and I love the insurance business.
7:04
But what I didn't love was that I was held at arm's length when it came to claims.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Like agents are not supposed to meddle in claims and I always just I was chomping at the bit to deliver on the promise.
You know I felt really passionate about when my clients would have a homeowner's loss or they had an injury car Acts or something.
7:22
I wanted to be there for them and be that hero guy I think ultimately I'm sure there's ego all inside there and so when I came over the restoration industry you know I was behind Brandon a few years.
But that was that's what I brought into the industry is I really I really find it satisfying the whole customer experience chain right from the sales conversations that that role of advising clients, I love that advisor.
7:53
See, you know.
Yeah.
And then your rating, this customer experience on the back end so I'm making all these promises as a sales guy.
When I got into the restoration Biz I was able to have a role Lynn, what kind of experience are we creating for these clients, on the back end, during these claims scenarios?
8:09
You know?
And so, I just took to it like a duck in water and Brandon and I, we took to each other, I think we've got, we've got some complimentary personalities, and yeah.
Yeah, henceforth years floodlight.
So.
Yeah.
That's that's awesome.
And it's really cool to hear that background.
8:25
The Cutco stuff so I had something similar.
Remember those old magazines used to be able to go around and sell stuff and you collect Point?
Yeah, dude, watch keys.
I did that a long time actually.
I got my first NFL jersey from one of those magazines of the Jerry Rice San Francisco, 49ers jersey and I worked my tail off in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina.
8:43
I was way too young to be knocking on random people's doors.
I don't think that would fly think.
My parents were probably got locked up and out of been taken away for eight or nine knocking on doors and selling things, but I did it and I think that was my first step into entrepreneurship and, which is again, why I wanted to bring you guys on today because a big part of it is, you know, sales and Chris, your background sales, Brandon, you know, all your background with the military and your operations and all ties right in together really well, which is why you guys fit so perfectly together, and which is why I want to have you guys on so much.
9:13
And a lot of it is that mentality.
But a lot of things that I notice and I'm sure you guys, you know, see the same thing on your end when we're dealing with restoration contractors or cleaning companies or any company, even with our old generalist agency where we did marketing for anybody.
There's a lot of mistakes that are made from the sales side right off the bat, you know, from a branding perspective, people miss Back on their logo.
9:35
They kind of stick their head in the sand and just kind of check some boxes.
But on a sales base side, there's a lot of missteps that are taken and one of the biggest things that had me reach out to you guys, to have you come on, is seeing our magazine sent me a link to an article.
You wrote about a year ago Chris called solution Solutions based selling.
9:55
And I thought it was awesome because you did talk about your Cutco experience and a little experience in the industry.
But the thing is stuck out to me the most is something I see.
See a huge.
We see it.
The same, I'm guilty of it.
I've had entrepreneur wise man, I've cut lawns.
10:11
I used to pick fruit and set it up on the side of the road.
My dad be hiding in the woods making sure nobody kidnapped me.
I mean, I was always trying something.
Yeah, which led me down.
So, entrepreneurs are wired a little bit differently.
And, you know, one of the things that we, you know, we struggle with is the sales part, right?
10:27
We feel so passionately about our business and our service, and what we bring to the table.
And that we have this hubris about us that we Like we are the best thing since sliced bread, especially in this industry and a lot of mistakes.
I made thinking back on, it was taking that approach the not a solutions-based, but creating problems and, you know, over talking and overstepping and trying to just what you mentioned in the article is just, you know, that bag of Swag and just trying to make them, remember me?
10:54
You know, so I wanted you to talk a little bit about the article was you are up for an award with seeing our, if anybody's familiar with seeing are the golden quill award and funny thing is It actually writes all his articles with a golden quill and somehow, it turned its right.
Wait, hold on.
11:11
Yeah, yeah.
Don't show it to anybody, yet.
That's sign up for our email list, and I'll send you a picture of the golden quill.
But guys, can you, I know I want both youkai.
I want both your inputs on this because you know, you guys both kind of tag team these companies you're dealing with this but I want you to talk about this article a little bit you know, give me a little bit more of the background and how that came about.
11:31
And let's talk about some problems that you see that this Lucien based sales process is just the best way to handle things to help mitigate some missteps that we all have taken as entrepreneurs.
Well yeah, definitely, and I really want to, I really want to pull Brandon this conversation to is, what's interesting with the work we do now over the last two years is, I've been able to watch.
11:54
I've watched Brandon, he's got this deep operational background become a very Adept salesperson, you know, like it It's been fun.
I mean, we hang out at, we spend an inordinate amount of time together.
As you might imagine a borderline more than our own spouses lately, and and so Brandon's, like he's become a lot more of a sales guy, and really has a keen understanding of it.
12:20
And likewise, I think I've started to through, osmosis really, really develop a deeper understanding of the operational management side of the business as well.
But I think, You know, I think what we have experienced it's almost it's the elephant in the room like look we're not seeing anything different than what I think the entire industry is seen in restoration.
12:43
We have a very weird product, it's weird.
And of course there's other industry, verticals niches that are probably very similar to us, but it's it's weird.
It's weird how our business moves and it's weird, how we have to sell to it, because we don't have a defined there's there's really no defined sales process.
13:04
Now, there's little niches of our business, right?
That are more of a prescriptive, kind of sales process, where we have a presentation, somebody else will probably have a presentation.
We do a proposal we close on, like mold for example, right?
It can be one of those direct sales, but the MIT Resto component of our business.
13:21
It's fuzzy.
We don't know if we won the sale until we get the call, you know?
No.
Yep.
And so the industry has struggled how to deal with that.
And the answer that we've had historically is top of Mind awareness.
I don't know if you remember this because you're a marketing nerd, you know, but back in the day the the very first wave of digital marketing was all Tomah.
13:43
It was just like, how can I, how can I be present everywhere?
It's just top of Mind awareness.
The last person they saw in this product category service category and it's just like everywhere and then we have this proliferation of banner ads, you know?
When I'm shopping for that flannel shirt for the fall, I'm seeing this ad for disaster restoration, you know, and you and all of us who had businesses thought.
14:04
This is so cool, I can put my brand in front of people anywhere I want.
And I think it fed our egos kind of like Billboards.
And so we applied that to our industry with the candy and smiles program, of course, long before digital marketing.
14:19
And This is 40 years ago.
We started with this whole candy and smiles program and it worked at the time it works for a while because people weren't so gosh, dang distracted.
But now right over the last 10 years it's like people are just bombarded with these same pitches and messages constantly.
14:39
And of course, what I know because I was an insurance agent, I owned an agency.
I had these same restoration Reps for five and a half years coming into my business.
Now again using agent, speak interrupting my employees.
14:56
Yes.
And more candidly like my payroll spend.
Yeah.
Right exactly people are servicing my clients and their writing new apps.
New business keep the old business like as an owner.
I'm fully you know too that I did not see the value, add of these restoration companies popping in and doing that whole thing and you know I think my employees liked it.
15:21
And I think the model worked because my employees loved a little break, they loved a little interruption in the midst of, right Maps, newly calls and all that kind of stuff.
And so, the model just kind of worked.
But of course, that has changed a lot and covid accelerated that change in many, many ways.
15:37
And so, we saw this, as we were building a Restoration company, we're like, okay, when we not only saw it, we felt it.
Like, hey, if we put ourselves in the agent shoes, we wouldn't like Like this model either, right?
15:54
So it started there.
Then, I started having, because I had five sales reps on our team that were working our markets and stuff.
And one of my roles was, I would meet with our biggest agencies, I'd meet with the owners.
Periodically, quarterly, couple times a year.
And I remember this one meeting with this agency owner, multiple Sites, Big agency, probably 50 employees in our in our Market, three different offices.
16:19
And I met him for Lunch.
And I said, hey how're things going.
How's the business going?
What's your impression of our company?
What have you heard from your employees?
What do you hear in?
Potentially from your clients, just want to check in and make sure, you know, we're always trying to get better, blah, blah, blah kind of gave that whole intro and he just he stopped.
16:40
And he looked at me for a second, he said, well, can I be honest with you?
Well, that was kind of cool and he said he said, look, I'm really pardon the language.
I'm really goddamn tired of these restoration reps coming in and distracting my employees.
16:57
He said, in fact, in fact, he was hot.
He said, in fact, I had one of these reps come into my office a week ago, take one of my front line, my producer licensed employees that rights apps cells business.
17:13
Take one of my producers out to lunch off-site and brought them back. 15 minutes late.
I give them an hour, lunch, sir.
You know I'm a paid our lunch and they came back an hour and 15 later.
I watch this whole thing happen.
17:29
I said he said that doesn't make me happy as a business owner.
Do you have any idea how much payroll I have rolling per hour in that one office?
I said I can only imagine sir.
Thank you what I didn't realize until later that that restoration rep you talked about took the other his employee out for lunch.
17:54
It was one of mine.
Wow.
One of my sales reps and it was a best intention, right?
We were of course model of like to build one and in fact if I was honest That was a representation of us trying to be more relational in more yeah, partner oriented taking them out to lunch and and presumably right.
18:18
If that sales rep was kind of following our script at the time, they were asking some Curious questions about.
Hey, how are things going at the agency?
What are you hearing from people include?
They were doing a discovery conversation likely and yet we miss the forest through the trees.
Which is this whole Interruption thing, interrupting our clients businesses, we just weren't tuned into it fully.
18:40
And so, from that point on, I came back to the leadership team.
I think bran and I had a subsequent conversation and we were like, we got to shift gears.
Like we certainly don't want agents, an owner's thinking about us in this way, this is a problem, and I would challenge the people watching this.
18:57
To feel that out.
You're probably not going to hear that feedback from office, managers in front desk like front office staff and producers because it won't be like they like The Break-Up in the, in the day but talked to a few of your large agency owners.
See what their perspective in summer, probably cool with it.
19:13
No doubt.
Maybe I got a real abrasive, you know, dude, that's okay.
But I think it was a big.
It was a big learning experience for me because I've owned businesses and when he said look, do you know how Payroll on burning.
I thought actually I kind of do because I had five in for me at my scale.
19:34
When I had a State Farm Agency, it was a lie, you know?
And I felt that same pain when I'd have Rando sales.
People, walking through my door, every 22 minutes, you know.
Yeah, so that's, that's where that realization began.
And then, we just started to unpack for ourselves.
19:51
How do we do this differently?
We still have to have referral Partners.
I mean, at the time I want to say those that are agent referral Partners were generating close to three million dollars of business for us.
So what do you do it?
And there was a little bit scary because when we started to pull back on that that route thing that hold drop in cycle.
20:12
We had a lot of fear, how's this going to be, you know, what's going to happen?
What we lose top of Mind, awareness.
And now the last person in the the person that brought in the best chocolates going to win.
Or can we continue to win in a different way in which ultimately went a different way and probably more of a hybrid model where we really change the conversations we're having we prioritize scheduling our visits, right?
20:37
So we put some power back in the agency's hands.
Not scared of us, just forcing our way in which is ultimately what we do and what our industry does generally.
And then we started to think about it in terms of what is this mean for how we sell commercial businesses?
20:52
What does this mean for even just how we sell ourselves and how we're branding and how we're talking about ourselves in networking events?
And you know what I mean?
Like, yeah.
And it just started to cause us to rethink everything.
You know about the business because when you start changing that, it starts to impact the conversations that your technicians are having with customers when they roll up on site you know and so we can we can get more into like the actual model but that that that was kind of the landscape for us where we started to change our thinking.
21:28
Yeah that makes sense.
And Brandon I want to hear your thoughts on this kind of stuff from an operations standpoint because you know, the first thing that I thought about was well yeah, that applies to agencies right there.
They're in a different realm and having a construction business and you guys can relate you guys contractors ourselves.
21:47
The lunch is like the handshake.
Take a guy out to lunch, you're going to bro, down a little bit and you keep that top of Mentality.
But you also can get on the same level.
So if I find it kind of interesting that you guys have come up with a framework because I know there's no 11 magic pill, that that really handles all of this.
22:03
So the hybrid you know model is probably going to be the best bet.
So from an operations standpoint Brandon, how did you guys, you know really attack this and I know we're going off a little bit from the article but I really like what we're going here because I think it's going to tie right back in nicely.
But Brenda how do you guys handle that from an operations standpoint within when you kind of had that Realization like I we're pissing people off now.
22:25
Yeah, three million dollars in work is a lot.
You cannot risk that top of my mentality is always going to be prevalent.
You know.
That's that's what social media is for now.
You know, it's not a direct response, you know what we're doing, or what you guys are doing.
Actually, you're selling, you're trying to sell a beach clothing in the winter time.
22:42
In a place that's nose right in the summertime.
It's probably a lot easier but you need to maintain that, you know, your fingers on the pulse at that point.
So talk to me a little bit about how Inside to the Resto business, how that kind of worked out when you guys had that realization.
I think the first place is and part of this was an accident because Chris and I is professional relationship was pretty integrated.
23:04
So we didn't have as distinct of silos between operations and sales, but that was purely on the back of our friendship, our working relationship over time, we saw the value of it and begin to invest in that and actually turn that into process, right?
23:20
And became intentional.
But I think one of the things that Chris talks about when we're teaching solution selling like solution-based selling is we have to come up with actual Concrete Solutions than that our team does differently from everybody else.
23:36
We can't just talk about, you know, sayings on the walls or core values.
It's got to be something that's concrete measurable.
There's some kind of system or process in place that holds the team accountable, to actually doing that thing.
And so I think, There's two things that happen one.
23:54
Is it made us really think about what we're doing and how we do it and can we actually deliver Concrete Solutions that are measurable?
And then I think the other thing it caused us to learn over time was how much more momentum and power.
24:10
A team can get when the sales and operational staff are actually working together and it sounds funny for some people, maybe when we say that.
But I cannot tell you how many times a week A week, we have conversations with people and they almost proudly, say, oh, we sales doesn't get engaged in that.
24:30
They don't touch operations or like, they're staying with pride.
Like yeah, we keep them out of that.
Yeah, that's crazy.
Well, it's crazy, right?
It's crazy for residential work.
It's crazy for multifamily, it's 10x crazy.
When we're talking about commercial relationships.
24:46
So without hogging a bunch of air time, I think those were the two biggest things that we learned together experimenting.
Eyes.
We have to break down these silos between our operational and sales teams, because they become a Powerhouse when they back each other up.
And then in conjunction with that, we had to stop talking about what we do.
25:06
And we had to start verifying and validating what and how we do it.
So that when somebody said, hey, here's a concrete solution that we provide to overcome that challenge, or that pain point.
We had to make sure it wasn't just lip service.
Sir.
25:22
I'd love to The two biggest, you know, areas that we ended up kind of hyper focusing on during that transition.
Yeah, let me, let me apply some color to that picture because that was perfect bread.
And that, that was what emerged and so, here's how did that change our conversations with agents?
25:40
How did that change?
Because Allah most everybody listening to this is probably going to have if they're more than just a few people.
They probably have a marketing rep or they have a sales rep out there, you know, that's touching agents plumbers.
Etc.
So how did that conversation change?
If we're not doing candy and smiles anymore?
25:57
How does this conversation outside with agents change?
And what are the implications for operations?
And how?
What did that look like?
So here's kind of how our agent conversation shifted.
The next time we went into their office or when we went into an agent office for the first time, you know, subsequent us kind of making this shift, we instead started to engage them about the role that we play in retaining, their clients, And what I mean by that, is we've recognized, and I coming from the insurance industry, I knew this is fact, and I knew it as fact, because I've, I've heard the data, I've seen the data directly from State Farm, say, Farm used to have an annual claims review, where it was an agent call, where agents would call in, they'd hear all the stats in terms of loss ratios and how it's impacting underwriting and different High.
26:51
You know High propensity loss areas from the prior year and how storms affected things and average homeowner loss.
The the they would go through like what was the most common cause of loss, and it's all that kind of stuff.
And we learned some things, I learned some things from that is that the outcome of claims dramatically affects an agent in a company's book, a business.
27:15
If a if a claim goes well write a custom reports above a certain satisfaction level for their claim, they are a customer for life within State Farm average tenure of a household Within State Farm people having all their policies with us with something like 10.1 years.
27:32
And at the time I don't know what it is.
Now it was number one in the industry with the longest retention of anybody and agents were really proud of that.
But what's interesting is, is once somebody has a major home owners claim Beyond a certain amount of can't, remember if it was 12,000 bucks or more but That if they're, if they're satisfaction rate, reaches above a certain threshold on that claim, their longevity goes.
27:56
Almost double to 21 years.
Oh wow.
Average tenure, which is really interesting data.
And of course, State Farm has more data than anybody else in the industry at least, did at the time.
And and so, it was powerful and we knew that and I took that to heart and there were things when we heard those reports, my team, and I did to try to enhance claim experience, but, of course, there's very little, we could do an arm's length.
28:19
But fast forward to Restoration industry.
This is the conversation I'm having with an agent look mrs.
Producer mr.
Agent owner what we've learned over the years and we know this as restoration companies, if we take enough time to just think about and reflect about the business we have and the role we have in these claims, the effect we can have on the outcome of the claim.
28:43
We know this to be true.
Hey mister missus agent, listen, what we've learned over the years Years as a company.
Is that when one of our agent customers has a claim for one of their policy holders, one of two things is going to happen at the end of that claim.
29:01
If it goes really well, it almost doesn't matter whose fault it was.
You know, if you had them all set up with the right coverage, or the adjuster was having a good day or we as the Restoration company just hit the ball out of the park.
It doesn't matter who is at fault for that.
Great experience.
You've got a customer for life.
29:18
It's very unlikely.
They're ever going to shop their policies.
Once you've delivered on the promise, right?
Is the feeling in the affirmation, they get after a good claim I said, but we've also learned is the exact opposite is true. if we get to the end of a claim with one of your policyholders, regardless of whose fault, it was from the policyholders perspective, it's all part of that, all state, or State Farm or Barker early pne's, Insurance, independent agency.
29:46
It's all under the cloud of that, because that's who they've been, that's who they think is their agent and that you're the solution to all of it.
And so, a pig goes wrong, you very likely will have a shopper at your next meal with them.
And then, and then I add the final sentence in.
30:03
This was I'm role-playing for you.
This was our sales reps.
A Sation.
This was the narrative that we started from this was the route moving forward and mr.
Agent, we as a company, take that very seriously.
So, let's talk about how we can partner on these claims, right?
30:23
To create the best outcome and a big part of, that's going to be communication.
Yeah, right, what level of communication, are you, and your team interested in from us, we kind of frequency of updates.
Would you like to be included and copied on our communicate with the client?
You know, what is your desire because what we're trying to do is create a great claim outcome because if we do that, we've helped your business succeed, we've closed your back door, right?
30:47
And then Hopefully you guys are motivated to direct more.
People are way because you're confident in the kind of experience that we're going to give.
I want to piggyback on that a little bit because I think that's a perfect example been of how this translated into the bigger picture sales, Focus that our teams have been building and that is, it's about the individual on the other side there.
31:11
Like, if you think about what, what Chris was focused in on there, it was learning about that.
A person's business.
What's important to their business?
What affects their business?
What's the value?
That our teams bringing that's specifically relevant to them versus again, the top of Mind, here's the here's all the swag.
31:34
Here's all the shit scuse me that were, you know, throwing at you.
But it wasn't about our audience and which seems like when we say it out loud.
It almost sounds silly, but but then that translated into the way that we approach Commercial clients multifamily clients like Chris often will beat this drum of in order for us to be successful in selling, we have to be a student of the target markets.
31:58
We're going after.
Like, it's just Mission critical that you like and Chris.
And I have the commercial Master course that we put out.
There is a massive chunk of that, that literally is focused specifically, on developing, a better understanding of those Target markets.
32:15
And it's like, even when we do Live Events, there is part of me.
Gets a little imposter syndrome every time of our people going to really care about this piece.
But then if we're honest and stay true to why it's so critically important, it's the foundation you can't sell the somebody if you don't know what their life looks like, right, right.
32:35
So that example, with agents translates into the commercial environment where it's just okay, what do we need to learn?
So that we can shift our service delivery to marry up with what their needs are.
Because in the commercial environment I meant like we, you know, we think on IICRC certifications and S500 standards and all the things, which is awesome.
32:56
It's what protects us and and helps us, you know, be risk adverse and deliver a good service but often our clients needs actually are in conflict with some of those black and white IICRC standards.
And so we have to bridge that Gap.
33:13
We need to learn how to translate our industry, best knowledge and practice and marry that to To the clients, real experience needs.
And so that's really to me.
I that's that's what we took from those shifts in conversation.
It's, it's like, it's all about the client stupid.
33:30
Like, what do they need?
You know what I mean?
Yeah, and, you know, once so once we got there, it's kind of, like, walking down a road, we watch out on the yellow brick road here then, so, that's exactly right.
It, it absolutely translated into our Direct commercial approach.
But the next, the next layer we had to figure out is Okay.
33:49
So what we're getting on the side of the customer, we're trying to understand them, it's more about them, that's where the humility started enter into our model.
It's like, okay, isn't about us.
It's not about us how big our Fleet is, whether we got a cool app to track your claim with us all that stuff, that stuff's cool, that's not to miss that stuff.
34:08
It's just that that's not what matters until the until it does.
And for most of them until they actually have a live claim, they don't care about any of the window dressing, you know.
So it's all about them.
So how do we start to change the conversations into this solutions based approach?
34:25
Here's how that shift happened in the conversation then.
So that's kind of the Genesis conversation is a, what do we know about claims and what do we know about the impact on your agency, right?
And then subsequent conversation started to sound like this.
Hey, listen mrs.
34:41
Agent, mr.
Producer, da.
Da, da.
You don't need to know any more about restoration for me.
I mean, We can certainly do a.
We can certainly do a see, you know, luncheon for you.
That's a value-added service, we do.
But I, they said you probably don't need me telling you more about restoration or business.
34:59
What is your experience with restoration?
What have you heard from your policy holders following claims, what, What complaints do you get and what do you hear that?
People like when they're dealing with these restoration companies on their claims, See when I and what I noticed as I started experimenting with these conversations because I kind of went out and I started dabbling in this myself and then of course we started teaching it to our team and they just took to it like a duck in water because it feels so natural.
35:29
It's so much more organic.
You don't feel like a salesperson, right?
You feel like a partner it's partner language.
And so as I started to experiment with this people started opening up, right?
Because it I wasn't trying to just find an angle to pitch to Was trying to find out what their angle is, you know, like what, what is their perspective on the restoration industry?
35:53
And of course, then things started to come out, you know, like they would tell about a cup company, they really liked and I would ask them.
I'd be curious, I'd say well, what was it about their people or their process specifically that keeps you guys referring them, And they would say things.
36:10
And sometimes, what we find out is they just really loved the project manager that was assigned to their agency or to their clients and and there's something to be learned there, right?
Just how valuable that relational connection is with the p.m. okay, there's a learning item, but then often to what we find is it comes back to communication.
36:28
But then we quickly learned everybody talks about communication, by the way.
I mean, right in service industry like communication is our number one struggle, but there's aspects of communication.
And what we found is, it's important for us to know what they mean.
When they say the communication was terrible.
36:44
Sure.
Because sometimes the communication, listen, I we probably all worked with contractors and had a home remodel or stuff like that.
And so we know all the different ways that communication can break down.
There's quality of communication, there's professionalism, there's Clarity, there's all that kind of stuff, but then there's communication frequency.
37:03
Yes.
And we started to identify communication frequency as the real felt pain.
Point and it started to come out in conversations with these agents about our, our policyholders never knew what the hell was going on.
You know, they would call us like they said they were going to be here, they're not here, you know, and or we haven't heard from them in three or four days.
37:24
And then of course, the agent has to get engaged and call out and like, what's going on because they don't want their claim going sideways, that makes them look bad, all the things.
And so that really started to evolve the Our conversation, we're having with all ages and frankly, plumbers and HVAC, and all these other referral partner sources.
37:44
Just ask them, what is your experience of our industry?
Good and bad.
What is it about?
People and process?
That makes it better or worse for you as a referral partner.
And then we started to these things started come up.
38:01
And so one thing that Brandon came up with and his team, I'm sure it was a joint effort, but with this communication frequency issue that we had to implement on our started, on our Recon side is 24-hour job updates.
It's not sexy.
38:16
This isn't fancy.
It's Frank.
Lee.
There's people listening, they're like that.
We already do that.
Awesome.
It's a really good thing to do.
But for us it wasn't necessarily a battle Rhythm.
It was something that we were doing selectively to service our client.
We had those may be more demanding or higher touch clients.
38:33
You know that just needed that our multifamily clients here.
For example, we did that on some projects based on the property manager, but we hadn't really built it into our process.
And so it's just a simple as having a Google email template and creating a process.
I swear every single day RPMs, they book ended their day by sending out this quick update to every single one of their active projects and what we noticed almost immediately course, it took some time to get full adoption, but we notice almost immediately is that, that frequency of communication pain went away.
39:07
So we also found out to is that in everybody who does Recon on this this listening, they'll know, we're talking about it.
Almost did away or it dramatically reduce the number of projects.
We'd Have where you'd get to the punch list and all of a sudden, like all this shit comes.
39:23
Yeah, the customers pissed like it's a little thing and then it turns into well, you guys didn't do this either five weeks ago and we asked for this and nobody ever wrote it down apparently.
So where is our, you know, where's our hot?
Cold hose bib on the back, back side of the garage for our dog that didn't get installed.
39:39
What the hell is going in, and he is pissed.
And what we learned is that we learn this idea of micro disappointments, right?
There's these little Irritations, sure, appointments.
The customer feels that they feel embarrassed to bring up in the moment.
It's like, wow, that's not a big deal.
39:56
But then if we're not if we don't have this Cadence of communication calming that part down, then it rears its head at the end.
We thought we had a four or five star client just based on the interactions and then all of a sudden like shit, I don't even know if we're going to get a review shots from this person.
40:12
Yeah.
And we're putting a ton of energy into saving that deal and so that's just one example of Having a specific system that we put in place that speaks directly to that felt pain point of the agent.
40:27
So we have that experience and then like Brandon was talking about, we started to apply that to everything in our business.
We started to pull back and say okay.
What are we saying about ourselves out there and and do we have the systems and maybe the roles the people on our team to actually fulfill that?
40:46
And in some cases it was a know you like the 24-hour job update report.
We looked at our mitigation process outline.
We looked at our Recon checklist pie thing like know, we at that step is missing, we need that component and that just became kind of part of our culture is a leadership team.
41:05
We start to become more sensitive.
That stuff.
And then we started to have more of this interplay sales.
The sales team would hear these things out in the field.
This became a regular conversation.
What are you guys hearing out there?
What our agents saying?
What our property managers saying about their experience?
What do they want?
41:21
What are the specific pain points?
They're feeding that back to our leadership team and then our leadership team is saying, okay, what can we do?
What can we tweak in our process?
Is there a higher that we need to make in order to solve for that?
And we had a series of things that flowed from those curious questions that we ultimately had to implement in our process in the offside, to make sure that our technicians RPMs our department leads were delivering on the same promise that our sales people were selling out in the field and its ongoing iterations.
41:52
Yeah.
Yeah.
You see this like, it can also almost be a little intimidating to be open to hearing people's input on what you really need to do with your business, right?
We all get that.
I mean Chris, I wrestle with that right now, with, with floodlight of We want to hear and there's some anxiety around the fact that once, you know, you can't ignore it anymore.
42:13
Either Robert.
Like I look in the mirror.
Yeah, you got to look at, it's just battle patients and becomes.
You will iterate over time, you know.
Yeah.
I mean that listen, that was that's a lot to unpack but it really isn't, right.
So, you know, it's not, it's so cool because the whole time, you guys were talking about this, all I'm doing is reverting back to something that we talked about in a digital marketing world is you gotta understand.
42:36
Who your avatar is, you got to understand who you are working with and I'm in that boat, right?
I need to understand the restoration industry.
I need to understand the cleaning industry to find out what the pain points are when it comes to marketing.
And one thing that we shift it is just ask questions and you model your business off of where their pain points are because you guys hit the nail on the head, part of a upcoming presentations that I do.
42:59
When I'm speaking at trade shows and stuff, isn't big part of it and has nothing to do with digital marketing.
It's understanding who you are selling to.
So, You hit you know you having the information on what the insurance carriers are going to be pisses them off, what they like, what the plumbers want their experience with everything and being able to translate that over to your team's to be able to provide a better service to backup your USP.
43:22
Your unique selling proposition, What Makes You Different, why should they work with you?
You're naturally integrating your business into their top of their mind all the time.
Because not a lot of people ask questions, you know, the most people are the candy and smiles.
As model because that's just how contractors are bread.
43:39
I come from a Contracting background and Commercial and that's kind of what you did.
You know, if you're a vendor, the vendors are showing up with some hats and saying, hey guys, let me take you to lunch and now being an employee on that side, that was awesome.
You know, being a foreman on a project that love going to lunch.
I love getting free hats, I've got so many hats.
43:55
I probably need another house for the hats I have, but as an owner, I don't like going to lunch anymore, unless I really have the time because, you know, we don't have the time anymore.
We're I talk about my Pick a plate spinner and the circus and I can only do so much as a lot of days that, you know, being with what we have going on, we don't have enough time, but it boils down to really, if you're listening to this, no matter who you're going after, if you're going after commercial work, you're going after you know, if you're a cleaning business and you're looking for a housewife or househusband to go, you know do some carpet cleaning?
44:24
You have to understand who they are understand their pain points and then understand how to address that and I can only speak from the terms of marketing wise, how to address it and usually put it on your website.
Right, you know, get your testimonials crafted, you know and learn exactly what you can do to kind of, mitigate those pain points for these people, and show them how you can fix that for them and you will get work, right?
44:48
The top of mine mentality is going to stay there when it comes to that.
So that's, that's awesome.
It's really cool to hear that.
You guys had that shift?
That's big because most people will say, yeah, I got to do that and they're still back.
You know, they deal with the day-to-day They Don't Really implement the other big part of this is it seems like you guys have woven this into your processes and that's The big part about this, what separates people that are successful from not is you have people that take action and people that don't write the other cool thing I mentioned is, I find it fit, and I guess it makes sense, but people that don't treat their entire company.
45:21
Every employee from office staff to the guys in the field.
As sales people, from a fundamental perspective, you're all representative of the brand, but I'm from a real perspective.
You know, you're all part of sales, every step in the process of onboarding off-boarding billing, everything.
45:36
Lens to because when a carrier or somebody that you're doing work for, they're not they're not going to be mad at one person that they're mad at your company.
When you're, when you do something that pisses them off, right?
So getting that stuff in order is plays, probably a little bit important.
I would think to make sure that everybody understands that you are a salesperson.
45:54
You are representing, like, I tell my son, you know, you're representing my family unit representing our last name when you go to school or you go to Tae Kwon, Do you know, make sure that you're, you know, being a leader and you're sticking up for things.
And it really goes.
Same way for your business.
So understanding who you are selling to is God, we can't overstate that, right?
46:12
I mean it's very important and you guys had to have that huge shift in business which is great.
Not everybody has the State Farm data but a lot of this is common sense.
I don't have that.
I mean, it makes sense.
Don't interrupt us.
We don't need what you have right now.
We get it.
Thanks for the Hat.
Thanks for the pen.
46:28
You know, big deal.
I don't think I've ever looked at a pen and I'm like, all right.
Yeah, I'm gonna call this guy up when I'm ready for it.
You know, you really just have to Understand how these people operate.
And I think that, you know, part of your what drove me to, you know, get you guys back on this article, two solutions, based selling asking the right questions, all boils down to understanding who you're selling to, right?
46:47
Yeah, 100%.
I think that's great and if part of you guys, obviously, have some major training with floodlight with a demeanor, that that's something.
I'm sure you guys step in ground zero and this is what we're going to get in order right now and develop those systems and processes.
So, are there, you know, real quick.
Is there anything out there like a quick actual besides, like really getting to know to dive down as Any kind of like a quick tip that we can get into that way or, you know, kind of close this out and kind of put a nice bow on this because I think that we can probably have 100 episodes on this kind of stuff and I would love to and everybody out there.
47:18
If these, if the gentleman will come back on, we are going to dive into this Avatar and learning your custom avatar a little bit more, maybe some actionable stuff, but you guys have anything else you want to add to the solutions, based sales thing for, I plug your audio out.
Yeah, totally thanks.
Dude, you were like, you are the friendliest promoter amount?
47:34
Thank you.
Yeah.
So I want to leave people with this thought this word picture because I found it incredibly useful and it just kind of informs the way we sell and this whole solution selling topic about 12 years ago, sales mentor of mine.
47:51
He was a technology entrepreneur, multiple startups all the things but he was a sales entrepreneur.
And he was given a workshop and I was sitting in on it and he said this one thing he said, guys and gals, there is there are only ever three things that we sell.
48:11
There's aspirin pain, reliever there's the vitamin bigger faster stronger and there's vaccines right?
If bad stuff happens it won't be quite as bad.
If you buy this thing, right?
Any of us whether its product or service sales, that's what we're selling, In any, and he looked at.
48:29
He kind of did this belong, pregnant, dramatic, pause.
He looked at everybody and he said, if you ever have the choice, always sell the pain.
Reliever always sell the aspirin and he went on to explain why.
And the why that I want to offer people relative to commercial sales in our industry because it's such a hot emergent topic.
48:52
Everybody's trying to figure out how to sell direct to commercial entities, Senior Living hotels, schools, all the things The reason why that pain reliever piece is so important, is that operational leaders, there's an incredible amount of inertia that we have to overcome for them to change a vendor.
49:12
Yeah, we don't think about this enough Brandon and I in our own little small business here like we have certain vendors we use and for somebody to take our attention to switch out a vendor that we're not aware of a problem, you like, I can't think of an example.
49:29
I've taught my head but just think of all the vendors you have in place right now.
They are working to some degree, unless there's something top of mind that they're failing.
But there's an incredible amount of inertia, because for me, to go from what my day-to-day job tasking is.
And my business focus.
What grows my business to then, swap a vendor out.
49:48
There has to be something to make that worth it.
Yeah, and pain.
Pain, is that thing?
Yes.
Business Leaders do not change vendors.
Is there is a significant effort Economic Opportunity which is rare.
You have some kind of disrupter vendor who's half the price of everybody else, okay whatever.
50:07
But that doesn't happen very often, it's always the pain, it's always the pain.
And yet we still tend as an industry to approach.
Our commercial prospects with a promotional cell where the biggest were the best.
Don't you want to be with the biggest and the best and that chief engineer that director of facilities is like, hey, I don't know what I got to work in.
50:28
Pretty good too.
Busy to deal with it.
Yeah, I'm too.
I just, you know, it doesn't even make my list and so to overcome that inertia.
It always it nearly always is a pain, it's a pain point.
And if we can sell to the pain point, we actually have an opportunity then to win them over as a vendor.
50:47
If we don't, it's all we're depending on his luck and the general attractiveness of the sales rep with the message.
And we don't want to build an industry in a company that way, right?
We don't want to build it.
The Charisma and appearance of our sales people if we can really get dialed in on building it on solving, a pain point for those commercial businesses, there is a never-ending supply of opportunity especially in the verticals, we're in because let's face it, construction Commercial Services.
51:14
Restoration.
Not exactly known for customer experience.
Delivery right now, if there's any pill, there's out there listening to this, you were talking to you specifically, because you're all, yeah, that's right.
That's the mentality.
It's a marketing thing.
51:30
I did people are motivated by pain and it's psychology.
It doesn't matter if it's business, or it doesn't matter if it's, you broke a bone.
If you don't feel it, you don't care.
You know, the so I love that.
And that was an article to the painkillers added that you mentioned in there.
And that's, that's really cool and late.
If you're listening out there, you really take this stuff to heart because this is some deep-rooted psychological information that just translates across the board to every little thing that you do in your life.
51:55
And we're talking about business right now and restoration specifically and it does it you have to understand who you're selling to and understand what their pain point is in a dress, that pain Point person.
We don't need this plant and then it's fun.
Well, there's the company better to write.
I mean, you're everything from operations, to how you talk to people is going to get better.
52:15
It is your needs solving your own pain.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Dude.
It also I think all of us are in this industry.
At least, if we're honest a little bit of it as we Enjoy the hero role yeah he liked sure it and it feeds us like there's a lot of satisfaction in that and this methodology and sales it just it just fits perfectly because it's all about the customer and solving their issue.
52:42
It feels really good.
It feels really good.
So if you want to be the superhero you have to, you have to know what you're saving people from.
Yeah, that's exactly right.
Never just flew in and just emptied out a building full of people for no reason.
That were you know maybe they wanted to be on fire, we got a hit.
53:00
Maybe they're okay with that.
Like this is fine.
Well gentlemen, listen I thank thank you very much.
And back to the article, listen to Chris, you are up for the golden quill award on seeing our.
If anybody's not familiar with seeing our come out of the cave, go check them out.
See, you know magazine.com.
I'm going to throw up the ticker for the URL for the actual article.
53:17
I implore you if you've listened today and you got value out of this, read the article because it really will Hammer this stuff home.
I can't say enough about What you guys are doing with floodlight and ahead hearts and Boots podcast.
You guys are really kicking some butt in the industry, check it out, see in our magazine.com, forward slash Solutions.
53:34
Hyphen based hyphen, selling check out Chris and all that you guys got some new stuff going on.
At floodlight, I'm going to let them check it out on their own, on the website.
Floodlight gr p.com, guys, thank you so much.
I can't wait to have you back on and talk about how we can teach people how to get their operations a little bit better.
53:50
We talk about getting your internet marketing, right?
Let's work on some operation stuff out there that we know a lot of the Maybe smaller.
And even the huge guys are dealing with right now that and the name of the game is trying to just systematize everything have processes that streamline.
The only finite resource that we deal with, which is our time.
54:09
Thanks for coming on, guys.
Make sure you check them out.
Floodlight group, listen to the Head hearts and Boots podcast, and we will talk to you guys soon.
Thanks again, guys.
Thanks brother.
I appreciate it.