0:00
Hey Brother.
Hey dude, so we have a fun show, it's interesting, right?
Because we're always I think in our shows we're chasing some extreme version of us.
Sharing ideas that we're like in the heart of right wrestling with personally or professionally.
And then we get the other end of the spectrum where it's like, writers New York Times Best Sellers.
0:18
And then there's honestly there's kind of a sweet relational Spot somewhere in the middle where you get a practitioner on the show, it kind of reminds me of sometimes our episodes with like friends like Rachel, right with me.
Accelerate like there's something special about talking to an operator, and I think not just for us, but I think for the listeners because it's so relatable, like, those little people doing what you do, you know what I mean?
0:41
Totally is, and we've talked about this for a while, how we want to get more owners on.
Yeah, I think this is going to become a pattern because one, it's really fun to talk to them.
And I think what you discover is even with high performers, in today's guest is a very high performer, very high up in the Servpro Network and one of the top 50 think so I think 15 the company out of more than 800 license holder.
1:03
So I mean this person's a player and at the same time, just very normal.
Yeah, you know, story you can hear yourself in the in, in Julie cats out of the bag.
You know, you can hear yourself in them and it's so relatable.
And I think also it's kind of fun to track with her journey.
Not just as an entrepreneur.
1:20
What was it like with beginning with a vision?
Both she and Tony for developing a multi-site business a regional Biz right out of the gate right out of the box.
Yeah.
Which I think will be interesting for some more listeners to hear kind of where that began and some of the disciplines they put in place to build that.
1:37
And then you also get a hear a little bit about personal passion.
Yep.
Like what does a successful Regional company enable you to do and pursue?
That's right.
You know, as a business owner and I think one of the things you and I really admire about Julie Ann and Tony and the rest of their group is they've really taken great care to build a business that they're not mired in.
1:56
Yeah, you know I mean yeah they're not the baker still making Croissants every morning at 4:30 a.m.
I like that.
You went for a croissant, right?
That is true because I love croissants that miss them dearly, right?
Thanks.
Lily you like those s'mores things that the old cough.
Oh dear.
Oh oh man.
2:12
That's right.
So anyway, great.
Great job with Julie, and we kind of cover the whole Spectrum, some her origin story.
I was telling you earlier to sell.
I get a little jealous of people that grew up in the family business environment.
Yeah.
You know, just because there's so much to learn like you and I've met, we've hired people that grew up in a family.
2:29
Business and they just have a different perspective.
It's like they have some things, hardwired into them that the rest of us had to figure out its like, the mentoring started early, right?
Yeah.
Clearly gives you the opportunity to succeed and then, you know, obviously with through the Journey of that conversation with jewelry.
2:45
We also see what happens when you've been winning and then what do you do with that right?
What do you do with that energy?
What are you pursue as you continue to develop your personal competency as a leader and I think she does a great job just kind of sharing what her journey is looking like her.
Slate.
And again, this, that's relatable.
3:01
This is something we can all mirror to a certain extent and certainly not feel alone.
And there was another thing for people to listen to is, if it's passing, is kind of a, we gloss over it a little bit, but there is a little bit that I think is really important for some people to hear.
Which is how did they handle the money as the money started to get good?
3:18
How did they align that with their long-term vision of what they were trying to build?
That's right.
Because I think that becomes a real stumbling block for a lot of successful owners.
It's like the pull to up upgrade the truck and the pole to upgrade the house, the pole to buy start acquiring all the toys and the travel and stuff maybe before you fully kind of built out the foundation of what you're trying to create.
3:43
Yeah, it's really tempting.
It is yeah, we see a lot of business owners, really stumble upon that.
And and so we touch on that a little bit with Julie and she had a little bit of perspective on that as well.
So, all right, so I want to get into that.
But first, let's thank our sponsors.
Lifted five.com guys just an actual New service partner for us in the industry.
4:02
We continue to yell about the success and the advantages and value that, that team can bring to not just our client base, but the people that listen to the show, this industry in general, they're making huge waves that are succeeding and winning on a consistent basis.
So, again, lift if I.com, they basically are your automation tool your automation partner for securing at a high rate, those five star Google reviews, which then in turn, right?
4:25
Create all sorts of opportunity from SEO digital present.
We've talked about It quite a bit, Google loves themselves, right?
And so the priority that they place on a company that's receiving good feedback through their platform, obviously is money in the bank.
And the newest thing that Zach and the team at lift, a fire beginning to talk more and more aggressively about is the AI components that they've added to the sweet.
4:48
So, not only are they automating the pursuit of those five star reviews for your team.
But then they're also automating our consistency.
And we're, we're responding and we're saying thank you, right?
So that feedback, and if you're in, Like floodlight, you might log into your Google business profile, every six or seven days and you're like, oh crap, we've got how many reviews and I haven't responded to him.
5:08
Then you slide catch up, right?
Well, apparently, they fix their AI tool is gonna solve for that, right?
And it's probably a lot harder for many of you because Brandon are dealing with two, three, four reviews.
Every time I log in some of you her, I decided right?
Yeah, a lot bigger, right?
So, so clearly that tool be a support.
5:25
So lift if I.com forward slash floodlight take part in what they're offering.
Our client specifically, our sphere of influence.
But just in general, guys, get it on board, man.
It moves the needle and it's an absolutely probably one of the most cost-effective ways that you can move the needle for your digital presence and then see in our magazine.
5:42
If you've been listening to our show for more than a minute you know that we're big fans of seeing our and big fans in the sense of like they're the hub for the industry Brandon.
I've talked about it before we came up in the industry and the independent side we didn't have a network of franchisees that we could collaborate with and gather Intel from and compare stories and That kind of stuff and also to help kind of connect us to the broader industry and see in our was that bridge.
6:05
You know, from this little small town, kind of independent Restoration company to what was happening in a more globally in our business and it still continues to be that even more.
So it's like 10x now.
I mean I feel like with his on top of it as Michelle is and is connected, she is to all the movers and shakers in the business like so long as I open my email and I'm following them on LinkedIn.
6:26
I feel like I'm catching all the latest hottest news you know, all All the MMA stuff.
I feel like I'm somewhat of an expert in it because I've been following.
She I personally every transaction happening she's catching and she's pushing out, she's doing interviews with these CEOs that are selling, she's doing interviews with the guys who are leading the ma around the industry, like she knows everybody and she puts him in the media.
6:50
So that all of us could be a part of this conversation.
So yeah.
And that extends out to the software companies OG all the support industry, you know, elements that support our industry.
Ekta done in by the way, hint.
Aunt.
I think we're going to be on that show.
Oh yeah, she's just not as back.
7:06
Yeah.
Totally when it'll get released, I don't know yet, but yeah.
So go subscribe if you're not a subscriber on the website, go follow them on LinkedIn.
I would follow Michelle also because she is interesting museums and stuff that she posts on her own personal profile, as well on LinkedIn.
But yeah, if you're not paying attention to seeing, are you really ought to be?
7:23
Yeah, you're missing out.
Yep.
Okay.
Yeah, let's get into the show.
Welcome Back To The Head heart and Boots podcast.
I'm Chris, and I'm Brandon.
Join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses, we lean the love this industry.
7:47
Well, Julie, how are you?
I am fantastic.
Thanks for hanging out with us.
You said it's not allowed to keep coming into this.
We do every single person listening to this day.
I've had their version likely of a wild week to write, but it's always a wild week and if it's not a wild week, that's bad and my business.
8:04
So, yeah, yeah.
So true.
Exactly.
I thrive on chaos.
Yes, yes.
Chaos junkie.
That's right, well, adrenaline for sure.
Oh, without a doubt, I mean, I think that's a prerequisite to be in our industry.
Like, you have to be somewhat comfortable in chaos in order to thrive in this business, right?
8:22
Absolutely.
Or at least know how to Wrangle it and manage it, you know, for face or Faked.
Do.
Yeah, it's true.
Does go a long way.
I always see those people wearing the chaos coordinator t-shirts and I'm like you have no idea.
No idea.
Yeah.
Unless you're running a daycare, you have no idea.
8:39
That's right.
Maybe if you're doing that, you might be close.
I think I'd rather run a Restoration company that a daycare.
I think me too me too.
Well, some days.
I feel like I'm running a daycare but you're not alone in that.
Yeah you know there's something there.
What Julie let's start this way.
8:55
First of all, can you give us just like the The overarching banner of.
Who are you?
What do you do right now?
And then take us back, take us back to the beginning wherever you want the beginning to start.
Because you've got some really interesting, you're a mover and Shaker in this industry.
You're a female executive in our industry, which has its own experience.
9:14
I think attached to it and you've also got some other business ventures and roles that you've taken on here in the last year.
But something that's kind of been building towards this.
But let's start for the listeners and okay, who are you?
What do you do?
It's kind of your current profile and then let's start and go all the way back.
9:31
And then we'll come back to some of this stuff.
Fun, do stuff you have going on, how's that?
Well, my name is Julie Roberts.
I am a co-owner and franchise group, and I've served Pros, we have nine based out of Richmond Kentucky.
It's in Central kentucky, we cover three states, we've gotten on licenses and five locations.
9:47
So, been doing this for 18 years, and never my intention had no idea.
This industry even began when it jumped into it, or was even there.
So, came into with my husband straight out of Of at school and writing to a new marriage and here we sit wow, grad school, new marriage and then starting a company.
10:03
Yeah, I mean what else can you throw in there?
Right.
Like the recipe for Success kids in like, after two.
We waited.
Yeah, we had two dogs.
So I mean those are kids and we waited I was I think seven or eight years before we had our first more.
Wow.
10:18
Yeah, choice.
That might have been really insightful and your partner.
Yeah.
Yeah.
When we started the children Journey, we were also bought a new franchise or building a new location.
And we're building a new house, you know, when we do things we go like to stress the system.
10:34
That's brassy.
Yeah, yeah.
Is that brassy by accident or do you guys intentionally?
Look at this and say, you know what?
Let's stack all the cards up.
Let's go hard into the paint and see what we can pull off.
You know.
I wish that I could say it was premeditated more than it was, but I think.
Yeah.
I think we just kind of one builds off another and builds off another and then you're going oh we gotta get back out of this.
10:55
Things are going too.
Well, let's see.
What we got.
See what we And ooh, well, how is he curious when I meet people what their parents were like and what their upbringing was like, right?
Because that defines a lot of who we are and who we end up being?
Was there anything in your childhood that pointed towards being in the service trades and run and companies?
11:11
Like what would you like?
Oh yeah, I mean I think my childhood is extremely telling my father was a small business owner with his brother.
They owned rental equipment, construction Lan, Lan gear, and things like that.
So I spent a lot of time in small business with him, I started helping him with accounting, my mom.
11:27
Retail, she worked for Sears, so she was a manager there.
So service industry spent a lot of time at Sears as well with her.
So I mean I heard all of the dinner table Talk of the two different worlds and the decisions that were made.
So yeah, I mean, I think it's very telling you where we are now.
11:43
So were they pretty verbal about like their experience and what they're doing in the decisions they're making that?
Yeah.
Absolutely.
I mean I think they used each other sounding board very much so I would hear that I was an only child so yeah we're all those conversations and they bored me to death at the Time.
But, you know, now I can still remember of them when I'm making decisions, the like the seeds were planted solutely, certainly paying attention in the moment, right?
12:05
It's just funny because at the time I was like, I will never do that.
Like that just seems awful.
Like, why would anybody want to do their business?
He works all the time.
He's stressed.
My mom saying, why would you want to work in a service industry like this is crazy and then parents said, you were a college athlete to be talking about.
12:21
What the heck?
Yeah.
I wasn't a college athlete, so much.
I mean, I've always just been an athlete.
I just, I like sports.
I like to My body.
I think it's very important and the mental side of anything that you do.
So I swam and I rode horses for a long time and I still do both.
So swimming is an interesting character because it's a team but it's also very individual and it's you're trying to beat yourself in every single race and I tell Servpro is I mean that's certainly how the restoration businesses we have goals and things but I mean I'm just trying we're trying to beat ourselves each time so and it's still a team but it's also a lot based on what you're doing individually.
12:53
So I think it plays well together how much of that was like that whole the sports.
Peace and all of those, is it more of a rearview mirror where you look back and you say, hey these things really have started to build on themselves or was there a lot of intentionality about that Journey.
No.
I mean I think I was in sports just because I like the social side of it.
13:10
I wasn't like a star athlete by any means.
I mean, I was pretty good at the things I did.
I just rely a lot on beating myself like I said, so I just want to get better and I like to be coached and I like to coach to.
So I think that kind of built over the years and I do that with my kids to their swimming.
Now, they're good, but it days, they hate it.
13:27
I'm trying to teach them, you know, it's not about being the best and you can see some days, you're not the best.
Some days you are the best, but getting better each day, you got to show up, you know, and there's a lot there that you hate from day-to-day, it sucks, it's hot, it's cold, you're hungry, you're tired, you don't feel.
13:43
But at the end of the day, you're not going to do a good job.
If you don't put in that daily effort.
So they're learning, I mean, they fight with me a lot on it because they, you know, kids are they change.
They play basketball and baseball and all the things, but we've always kept swimming consistent because it's a life skill.
And Business is a life skill.
You know I mean no matter what you do at a friend in college that she wanted to do hair, it's all she wants to do.
14:04
She want to be a hairdresser, their dads like that's fine.
But you're going to go to business school, first graduate.
And then you're going to own the hair salon and I mean that is always resonated with me as like.
That is exactly right.
They take whatever I've friends kids come to me all the time.
What should I do?
And I just take the business classes like that's the foundation of everything, no matter what you do, you're going to apply that somehow yeah, it's interesting.
14:23
It's kind of a similar conversation.
We've had with our kids in terms of My son, for instance, went to, he got educated and when he was pursuing his degree, it was in Psych.
And I remember like, even him getting done with his 40-year heeya, most immediately was like, I almost should have just done - she has a degree, right?
14:41
Like he's already saying, okay, what's next?
And when he looks at what's next for himself like I needed more business education.
That's probably what I would have leveraged more in my favor.
I went to school to be a physical therapist that was my original intention.
I went to UK, I like sports.
I like working.
14:57
I don't want to To be a sports physical therapist.
So I started volunteering at Kentucky clinic and I found myself spending more time with the administrative people in the office people, the therapist.
And so I had a really bad chemistry test or so I thought and I immediately came back to my sorority house called my dad and then I changed my major.
15:15
I was like, I'm out, I think I failed this test.
I'm switching to business, at least, I'll get those foundations and then I checked, you know?
At that time you didn't have online classes.
Like, on my grades, I went down to the chemistry building and pull it up and I got it.
And I thought, you know what, this is divine intervention, like I'm switching.
15:31
I'm going to switch to business and I stayed with it and I'm going to did funny how that chemistry still comes to play a little bit here in our business but yeah, I'm glad I made the change not only that, but didn't you end up kind of in the Sports Marketing field for a while?
Yeah.
And that was the intention like I just wanted to do Sports Marketing.
15:47
I love sports always have them from Kentucky, basketball country, and football now and even baseball this summer, we'll get a good baseball run.
So that's all I wanted to do.
And then I went to school for That it did an internship with the Titans.
I was working for an indoor football team and it was great on the day-to-day.
16:02
But I mean, I was in the office on game days from 5 a.m. till 5 a.m. sometimes overnight.
I don't care about the hours, but all my friends were in the stands, like having fun party, and drink a beer and cheering.
And I didn't get to do any of that.
So things aren't nearly as if you love something, it kind of takes the joy out of it when you're just grinding in it.
16:23
So when this opportunity came kind of in my in my lap I thought well I don't We love cleaning.
So this sounds fantastic.
Something I can pour into and still have my weekend, so it's worked out.
That's kind of counterintuitive.
I think of what people would assume you would hear right?
16:38
Like yeah.
She's your passion and do all that, but it's true.
It's like it.
Then it do something that it was kind of not meant to be at the beginning.
What made you passionate about it?
The first place, right?
Yeah, I mean, people are, did you see that play?
Didn't know I was watching to see if the fireworks went off or, you know, I mean, I missed all the good stuff so, yeah, totally missed all of it.
16:56
So I thought that Oh, this isn't going to work.
But I did game day operations, a lot and it was just very thought, achill and everything was so pre-planned and had to go off without a hitch.
So, it's like a large loss, you know?
I mean, you have all the resources, everybody had to be lined up in scheduled.
And so, I mean, it was ironically, very good Training, great project management training, rasher.
17:16
Yeah.
And are completely without any like just thrown into it and I was able to figure it out.
So and you've got what I mean.
Shoot how many stakeholders do you have in something like that between the different organizations?
Shirts massive, right?
Oh yeah, absolutely.
And that one was.
I mean a local.
So we had 24 owners or something like that on top of all of the different team members that were making and we played it rep Arena.
17:38
So I mean, it's a big facility.
I mean, it was a very good learning experience and it sets you up for like a high-rise condo scenario.
A that's right owner.
You know.
Yeah.
And I'm fine.
I've learned a lot about decision-makers, you know, who those people were, and you could call the shots.
17:53
So yeah, that came into play later for sure.
That's hilarious.
So how Long ago, did the serpro journey start 18 years, we just celebrated 18 years.
Well, I was a baby.
Oh my gosh.
Yeah, what an interesting trajectory.
So okay, so you've got a scenario with parents that are I guess very open at the dinner table.
18:10
In terms of them communicating their experience, the decisions they're making sounds like there were some fairly healthy dialogue happening between the two of them as they parm together, right?
Yeah, absolutely.
So you're catching wind of that and then obviously you get this conjecture in college.
18:26
Where are you?
Of divine intervention shift into a business focus.
Yeah they're exercising some of that strategy in real life then you commit to a surf pro scenario and you do that for 18 years which the lessons from that must have been fairly profound still learning them mind.
18:42
If you this week actually talk through a little bit of that Journey because I think for a lot of the folks that are listening, right?
You guys have crossed multiple pretty intense thresholds.
In terms of building and developing a restoration business?
What's that been like Like that journey and growth for you.
18:59
Yeah, I mean, it's crazy to me to look back at because 18 years ago, we started in a very small rural Market total start up there.
Never been a franchise there before.
We didn't have any idea what we were doing or how we were going to do it and we realized like you're 10.
This thing is way bigger than our projected perform my first that we ever thought just to get the bank to give us a loan.
19:19
So we brought in our business partner in open our second location in 2008.
So it's three years later still a real Market a little bit closer and Kind of just picking out trying to spread out coverage.
We've always done multi-location which at the time was not really the norm and it was certainly we got a lot of backlash for that.
19:39
It can't be done.
You got to locate, you know, you have to be in the location.
One one owner and we just didn't feel that that was right.
So we stuck to our guns and kept what, that we started building, kind of a centralized division leadership team, and that's kind of where a lot of my husband and our business partners.
Focus kind of came into that building that leadership team and helping build in.
19:57
Visual locations for production standpoint over the years, we've bought and sold a few or now in the Cincinnati market.
So that's been our first, a by Metro.
But for a long time, just thought we were kind of stuck in that little rule 3 location, operator.
And that's just what we were going to do and you know the industry's changed a lot specially with covid.
20:14
Surprise change to.
So it's allowed us a lot of opportunities but it was definitely a lesson in patience.
I think we had with our trainer a meeting once and I was like, we're just never going to be one of those huge operators.
We're just in small Central.
Jackie, and, and he said, a lot of things happen in this business, because I've done this a long time.
20:32
He goes, there's marriages, there's divorces people, die.
People just don't want to do it anymore.
Stay with it.
It's a game of chess that your pawns, and we did that.
And we just waited it out, and I thought that was just excellent advice.
And I think about that.
Whenever I have to make a big decision anymore, just set your pawns and doing that and making that change.
20:49
Our businesses has totally set us in a place that we're in now.
And for the future, I feel like we're in a really good situation.
You gotta hit the set upon.
The thing is that I think I might have a loose connection to what you're saying, but there's obviously wisdom there.
What do ya mean from your perspective?
21:05
Well I mean I never learned how to play chess and my kids are super into it now.
So if you want to feel stupid for a chest with a nine-year-old.
So yeah and I didn't understand, I kind of played it like Checkers.
Like just one, you know here, I'll jump you.
I'm going to the next but it was so strategic and making sure you had your back game, your for game and setting your defenses.
21:24
And I didn't play like that before we were very in.
Man, if an opportunity arose, We Struck it.
We figure it out after and you can't play this game like that long term, it'll work for a little bit and I've seen it, I mean, I've seen a million of these franchises that came in and they had a couple good opportunity not just franchises businesses.
21:42
My mom worked for Sears.
You know, me, that's a perfect example.
Like, I mean, they were had a good thing, they were set for Success.
They weren't for thinking and paying attention to what was going on in the industry and they lost it.
You know, I mean and you see where that is now?
So yeah.
So that's where I think we've just tried to Be extremely long term case scenario on anything that we can be and that's put us in the position we're in Now.
22:02
You Coulda is so funny because I think in hindsight, everything seems simpler than it was, you know, or it's so complicated to tell a story.
Sometimes that we just gloss over with these big themes and your play, my being a multi-site from pretty much the beginning.
And I think a lot of people in the audience are like, I think everybody knows that the bigger the scale, you build the bigger the financial opportunity.
22:24
There's a lot of business benefits but I think it's the same time.
Like have a difficulty picturing, how could I ever do that?
How did you guys finagle that is you guys just come in with, trust fund money and you're just filling in Doha round to buy some Whately?
Not absolutely not.
22:40
No, we have no money.
What were some of the priorities that you guys set in front of you.
In terms of how you were going to run the business in order to kind of Go Big from the get-go?
And I know we said all of our every new acquisition we make.
We make a pact or it's part of our business agreement.
22:56
That we don't take any money.
E out of the franchise for two years.
So I would the location.
Everything is reinvested, we don't touch it and so we're very frugal with all of our expenditures.
We try and build all of our leadership team on incentives to for making money, they're making money, you know?
So we tried to be very, we tried to not think of the best way to explain it because you said I'm glossing over that part.
23:16
We had to kind of break off pieces and just figure out people's capacity.
So if we can make one thing work here and some there has to be a point where it's not working anymore and that's when we start bringing those positions off like Okay.
Everything, every position has a goal.
When you hit this dollar amount or this, whatever it is, and that's when we'll start, moving it into its own position.
23:34
Or we start seeing it that position compromised, or stress.
So, I mean, we definitely didn't come in and just throw a bunch of money and people at it.
We built and made it strong and steady.
It's like building Legos, right?
You got to build the foundation.
Another nine year old thing.
Yeah.
And so build it so that it stays and works long-term.
23:51
Again, I've seen a lot of that to where they just come in and we'll bring all the sales.
People bring all the equipment and that's just not Sustainable.
I mean I obviously speak a lot but I do a lot on.
I mean I like to talk about resiliency and resiliency and Leadership and I think that that's interesting because that's what our business is, people always find out what I do and they say oh well that's recession-proof and I'm like we're not recession-proof or recession resilient, you know?
24:15
I mean like we're certainly we can work through these things and I think that's the theme of our business and how I like to speak is set yourself up to be as resilient as possible.
So that the big losses don't impact and put you out of business or put you In Jeopardy, and the same with people, like don't put all your eggs in a person basket either.
24:32
So if you have a loss of leadership or management that you can still move on.
Yeah.
You talk about being Frugal and I think this is just so relevant to people that are listening because you guys set out you're a big Vision, you made very specific choices were there certain areas of delayed gratification you know I imagine you are seeing maybe some of your other serpro counterparts that I started buying the bigger houses, a big fancy trucks and stuff like that where their specific Ria's, were you guys really double down?
24:59
You should know.
We're going to wait on that stuff in order for this.
Yeah, we knew we had to build our equipment Arsenal and build our infrastructure with our leadership.
So yeah, we definitely did not take the flashy.
Yeah, we took a step back from that, we have our vision boards and my husband, I was a lake house, we really wanted a lake house so we had that, we knew it at certain dollars who work with a financial advisor.
25:18
Our accountant team like this is the point which it's doable.
So we put that off and put in extra hours, took extra storm duties.
Took extra large, you know, anything that we could do to That happen but we just wanted to reinvest in the equipment.
We knew that was the most important part and then start building our leadership team.
25:34
Because at some point, we've done this 18 years, we wanted to enjoy the lake house.
So having somebody to be able to take the on calls and not worry about it, or make sure payrolls happening or make sure that HR issues are done.
That was the next investment.
So we felt like we could really breathe.
Then we could start enjoying the fruits of our labor.
25:50
Interesting, the perspective.
I think that a listener may get so far as gosh, man.
Julian Tony are die.
Child in like, they are Visionary, like everything was so calculated and pre-thought through, and I know that just talking to you behind the scenes.
That's not exactly.
26:06
The know, like, kind of talk us through that because I think the challenge is right.
Is you guys are well into a journey, like, you've seen so much.
You guys have the Battle Scars in the experience, so you're looking backwards and you're able to tell this kind of connect the dots.
But for a lot of us listening, we're in the middle of this journey.
26:23
Like we're at the beginning phases, can you help like us?
And what was the difference in these categories?
In terms of what you were learning in route and what things you did actually have pre-planned or had some kind of initiative that you guys had pre-thought through and had conversations about.
26:39
Well I can definitely speak to the major mistake somewhere.
We missed the mark there too.
That just obviously stick out as being the most like detrimental that really stepped us back and that was we made a franchise decision and went into a market that we were in as control up as we thought.
So we went to a very rural Market By Request of customers and it's stressed the rest of our system, a little more than we realized and then the war on coal happened and the population of that particular industry, I mean the industry just left.
27:07
So the population just was gone, couldn't find workers to housing.
I mean, it was awful.
So that taught us the lesson of understand control the controllables.
So and we didn't realize how relative that town was to that.
So I mean we should have so that was just a young mistake and being excited and thinking we were doing something great.
27:26
The other one is we went into Action way too early.
We didn't have enough cash reserves.
We didn't understand all of the Dynamics of what success looked like in that.
And it got out of control.
We made some mistakes.
So we had to regroup and luckily we were able to but I see that a lot.
27:42
I mean that seems great and those dollar numbers are huge and it would seem like incredibly High profitability which it can't be but having a devoted team that's really on the same wavelength issue on that and Reporting and communicating with you.
What's going on is T'rul.
Yeah.
27:57
So now our construction vision is fantastic.
And we do a wonderful job that that's from Battle Scars.
For sure.
It, took time to eat that on that misfire.
With that new license.
You guys got in the community sort of broke down.
And how did you know when, to pull the ripcord, you know?
Because I think we talked a lot in business circles about perseverance and driving through and it's like not sometimes.
28:18
Yeah, it makes the most sense to quit and cash out and cut your losses.
How did you guys make that decision?
Because I think there's probably other people that have deal with a similar thing.
They expanded little to faster.
They the community doesn't support the full business.
You know, that kind of stuff.
How do you guys know?
How do you think through that?
28:34
I mean, that's probably mistake one, a is that we just kept?
I mean, it's just ego and now we can do this, we can do this, we can make this work and we stretched and we were stretching our other offices and our other management team our finances.
We were just trying to not say we messed up.
28:49
So you know I think it took somebody that we really kind of admired that came that said, all right like we need to rethink this and so we really just started Step back took a second away from our egos and go, okay, it's time to cut our losses and go somewhere else.
And you know, at the end of the day that franchise was, this was a success.
29:06
But I mean, we could have really made some really terrible choices if we would have stretched it out anymore.
But I think that you go is the hardest part in any decision, right?
Especially something like that where you just tell me and I own Halloween stores for a while old other crazy side Venture.
29:21
But saying that I mean that industry changed is a very similar story.
I mean, it went online.
Everything was Mind.
It was a franchise that Beyond as well and people were doing stuff themselves and we had to set back from the ego for a second to and be like.
All right, we're just, it's too much stress.
We can make the same amount of money, if not far more by putting that energy back into serpro.
29:42
So that bit you, I feel like every corner where your bags own a franchise at this.
Other group is just holler or follows the process.
I love a.
So, I mean, obviously, this is about you, but you have a partner in crime, clear?
Early right?
29:57
Yeah.
Tony multiple times is have a similar trajectory in terms of just the entrepreneurial drive like where did that come from for him and by the time you guys matched up.
Yeah I mean he does not have that background at all.
If you if you ask him about his entrepreneurial background it's selling candy on the school bus until he got in trouble at school.
30:15
Which I also did so clearly we were destined to be together.
Yeah.
And then I mean, when he was in high school, he went into Deca, which is, you know, an organization for Business Leaders in high school.
Got paired up with a Just later who needed to be incarnate.
He was a carnival like a food, vendor and needed an organization to get into some of these fairs.
30:34
So paired up with Tony next thing you know, Tony's a carny.
So yeah, I married a party first line of questionable choices made by me.
But yeah.
So I mean, that's a large loss to that's a storm situation, you know?
I mean they're traveling, they're having to get resources, delivered labor.
30:51
So while he didn't have the traditional, like, parenting entrepreneurial background.
Yeah, he he learned it.
Different way, exposure was there, Dynamite, I think what's interesting to Julia's that I think clearly as people are listening to you and we haven't even gotten into where you're headed now.
31:07
I think people listening, it's like, wow, there's confidence here, their skillset, there's wisdom.
There's all these things.
And, you know, one of the insights that we have is how humble you two are like you guys do seek Partnerships and mentorship, you looked outside resources to supplement, you guys and make sure that you're heading in the right direction.
31:26
What is that?
Stemming from what sets the tone that you guys can keep egos in check and continue to seek support as you guys succeed.
I mean we just want to be the best you know, we want to leave a good Legacy.
I think it's not just about me and I it's about you know we have Partners got a great team, we've got kids but we just want to do a good job, you know, I mean the money is fantastic, the stuff and all the you know, I mean the trajectory of where we're going here but end of the day like I just want a good name, you know, and I want people to have a better experience in life.
31:57
Life because they've been part of us.
So now that we're at the point where we're having employees that have been with us 10 and 15 years, that's amazing.
That tells me that I'm doing a good job there and so just trying to figure out ways to have more of more of those type of people and see the ones that probably didn't have much of a future and are buying houses and have 401ks and have titles and are managing teams.
32:19
Like watching that really gets me every single day, like where can I get more of those but then with our customers to, I mean I think we do a very good job.
Going back to our customers and go, you know, we have our cos but then we're like, what else could we have done?
Like, I can take it, you know, I mean, you have to have very, very thick skin and I think that was one of the hardest things that I came in this business, especially being female.
32:39
Probably have that tendency, but I would get my feelings hurt.
You know, I'm, I didn't want to make anybody mad, we didn't, I don't want to fire anybody or write them up.
I didn't want to cast her to me to be mad.
So I started asking those questions, what could I have done better and Tony's very similar so I think that's just kind of carried on And while we've gotten thicker skin with it, we still carry those Tendencies of like something went wrong, how can we be better with that?
33:02
And we try and teach our employees to be the same way.
You know, it's interesting that you say that and I think the reality of it is is that so many of us, get the whole cart before the horse thing, where there's something very special about you succeeding and really if we look at the trajectory it's on the back of that willingness to ask to try to make mistakes to push to do those things and I think it just serves as a good encouragement.
33:25
I mean, even I personally need that right?
Building our brand, we're building our strategy, there's days where we feel like we're on top of the world and then we have days where we get body checked, right?
That's right.
So I think just hearing somebody like you, that's really clearly been winning in a great scale to remind yourself and people listening like the humility.
33:43
Part is a superpower like the willingness to ask questions to hear the truth and find out.
Is there a better way for me to perform in this Lane like that really is the thing?
It's not the answer per se.
It's not showing that you've done it and been there but It's that super power of humility and asking the questions so that you can gain Insight.
34:01
Like, try it.
Not look at it like I did anything bad.
Like I'm just trying to be better, you know?
Like when I hear the constructive criticism, and sometimes it's just criticism I try.
And look at it that way, that, you know, everybody, I just looked at it a different way, you know, I mean, and I made a decision based upon that.
So going forward.
34:17
Now, I understand, you know, the binders are off.
So now, I understand that side and I'll make it all look at it a different way.
Going forward.
Let's set that tone because, I mean that's hard, right?
Like you.
Being able to separate yourself personally from the decision and looking at it that way, how do you do that?
I'm super self-critical.
34:33
So, I mean, nothing is ever good enough for me.
So I think that's just kind of an innate quality so maybe I don't know.
I wish I could answer that better.
I don't know what it is.
I've always been that way.
Well, but I actually hear you previously.
We were just saying though is having some self-compassion like that.
Hey, it wasn't this.
34:49
Something's wrong with me, it was just a wrong choice, you know, did you have to kind of adapt to that because that perfectionist sinew or whatever?
It was arming you and you had to.
When did you make that turn?
Yeah I mean I think that is probably what it was you know you come out young and hot out the gate and yeah probably for sure we made some mistakes there.
35:08
I think that you know what I've learned more than anything is just that like I don't always understand all of the inputs, you know you just can see what you can see and that's how you make your decisions.
And so now like when sometimes decisions were bad, just like the one for that one particular location.
35:24
I have to go back and go.
What did I miss?
Like, what was I'm not Yeah.
And the clearly without one it was that.
So whenever I try to make decisions now, I mean, it's just what else is there out there that I'm not thinking about, like I'm having a problem with an employee and I just think that they're not doing what I'm asking.
35:40
Well, maybe there's something else, you know, you don't always know what they're going through same with the customer, you know, maybe sometimes you think they're jerk and sometimes are not being a jerk, it's there's some other input there.
So I think that's been like the biggest change in the way that I lead in the way that I make decisions that has made us.
35:55
Go for it.
It's just understanding Standing.
There's a whole lot more out there and you have to really open your vision board up whenever you're making a decision, that's great.
I really like that.
I really love that because I think this is something that a lot of entrepreneurs and leaders struggle with is that rearview mirror.
Yeah.
36:11
You know it's that guilt and shame of messing something up, you know it's like I shouldn't have fire that employee or a should have fired an employee long time ago or kind of could have done more to help them or you know like the location I should have made that investment to we should have done that differently.
It's all the shoulds you just keep playing.
36:27
You know, I feel like just people hearing that they're not alone in that is his is so unapologetically me like Ida's.
I am a human.
I screw up we all do and I will tell you like I'm the first to admit it like I will tell you that was not right.
Like I screwed up there, I missed it this way, because that's how I learned, you know, I mean that's all, but the barn and I hate listening to speakers or books or anybody that's just cocky.
36:49
And like I did everything, right?
I've got the Midas touch and you know, we're all does, that's not real, like that's not learning.
So I would much rather somebody say This is what I did this, why did it wrong?
And and also like I have some successes to I think that that's important to share and there's lessons there too but I've certainly learned a lot more about all the things I've done wrong than the things I've done.
37:08
Right?
And there's certainly a case for good instincts, right?
I mean I used your thought around the centralizing some services and being willing to be a multi-location, like that was very forward-thinking, especially considering you didn't have that experience coming into that so for support, yeah.
37:25
Support right?
Yeah.
It really makes you second-guess yourself.
So, clearly, some Instinct power All right, head hardboots listeners want to stop here just a moment.
And thank our underwriting sponsor floodlight Consulting Group as all of, you know.
37:42
Right.
You know, Brandon and I this is our passion project had hardboots is but it's also a way of more and more that our Consulting clients find us and in effect they interview US, write those even listen to show for a while.
You get to know who we are, right what we're about.
So if head heart boots is valuable to you.
37:59
One of the best things you can do is share it with your And so it's been incredible to watch just the audience grow and you still get text messages from many of you about shows that you really like, and impacted you.
So that's number one and please keep doing that.
Many of you have been huge, Advocates of the show.
38:15
We also just want to remind you to.
If you're a Restoration company owner, and you're interested in a partner in your growth, you want some help building out systems, developing your leadership teams helping set up the infrastructure for you to scale and grow into the company that you're trying to build.
38:32
That's what we do.
That's what we do is we come alongside Restoration company leaders, we help equip them and we help support them in that growth trajectory.
So, if you're looking for that, go to floodlight gr p.com, potentially, we could be a great match for each other.
Another way that we really do, serve our client base in our sphere of influence is through our Premier Partners.
38:51
We work really hard to vet.
Those folks that we believe bring a level of value to the industry, that it can really be leveraged in a way to have a sincere positive impact on your business.
We take That very seriously, the folks that we create those kind of ongoing Partnerships.
That's not a check, the box kind of scenario.
39:08
It's, it's we really see strategic alignment in the value that they bring.
We see value in the way that their leadership teams and their partners are developed.
And we've done very sincere work of ensuring that these folks that we introduce our clients and our sphere to can actually create vetted value.
39:24
So go check out floodlight grp.com forward, slash Premier / partners, and see if there's some folks on there that you can connect with and Developing some other resources to support your growth and your business.
So, one of the things you had talked about earlier, you had mentioned, just this passion for, or you at least highlighted, this wanting to be able to help people get better.
39:47
There's like a reference to the responsibility of the leaders is very about other people, your team members.
Obviously, that's part of what's driving.
This next phase that you're starting to head into, can we begin the transition that a little bit to tell us a little bit more about what the heck is Julie doing now, that's not serve pro, right?
40:06
What's this new phase?
The yeah.
I'm always doing serpro that's without question, that's fine, my passion for sure.
But I mean, I've always wanted to teach and when we first came into Servpro, they had these things called trainer ships, right?
And so, it was like between corporate and the franchises.
And I thought, that's what I want to do.
40:23
I want have a trainer ship but they were all taken and, you know, there's just no way.
I think that might even be how the chest pain discussion came up and are trained.
At the time said, just have your own trainer show, he's like, just have a bunch of in.
So that's probably an early thought and how the multi Say something came about was now just make my own kind of money, but the purpose behind that was I just like to share.
40:43
Like, I like to teach my dad was very much a teacher.
You couldn't ask him a question, you had to you know, you can just say I like this car.
He had to tell you why you like the car because the engine was this way and it drove this certain way and he had to break everything down.
So he taught me and that's how I teach and I learn.
40:59
So through that I do a lot of speaking.
I do a lot of continuing education classes and Community stuff.
I'm very involved with all the communities where a In.
So start picking up more speaking engagements.
And I was approached by branding agency and they said, I'm have you ever considered public speaking?
41:15
I said, I have, I love doing it but I don't really know what you mean and they're like, I think we need to talk about this.
So it's kind of a forum for me to just be creative and let lessons out and be a teacher of sorts.
I think that there wasn't a lot of outlet for females, especially in construction or in restoration industry.
41:34
So I think it's good to share some of those experiences they are.
But Also, like I said, it's a little bit of a creative outlet for me, too.
So yeah, started a website.
I've been doing like a speaking series and we'll see where it goes.
Are you starting to have a clear kind of avatar for the kind of female that you're trying to speak to and connect to?
41:52
Is it other women Executives like you business owners is it up and coming leaders?
Like who?
Where does your passion lie right now?
In terms your audience?
You know, it's funny when we first started doing the who is Julie situation with the branding team that was certainly one of the discussions and one of the things that They came out with was that I was extremely relatable.
42:10
And, you know, they come back with a few key words of words to describe you and relatability was one of the top ones and they said, you know, something that they like young women coming into the business world could really would like, to talk to you about your experience and how you did that.
But I feel like experienced professionals at the top would like to talk to you because you said in a similar seat as them.
42:29
So, I mean, I think I go across different sectors and I have different types of speeches for different.
Whatever I'm speaking about, but touched on.
And so earlier and that's really when I talk about a lot is kind of personal branding and the resilience of, not only my business, but how you set up your professionalism?
42:46
So who you are, is that something?
That is long term?
Seeing a lot of that now, with influencers and, you know, my kids think that they're influencers and they're making YouTube channels and I see a lot of this and they don't really understand what that means.
Long-term, and for somebody that's been in a business, 18 years, I certainly have some knowledge about that and what's kept us in the top.
43:06
So that's it.
Arresting.
I think that piece about orchids think that they're influencers, right?
I think that's part of the struggle that we have is teams in general.
Is just this, there's a bit of an expectation before it's burned that we rest, right?
How do you?
I mean from your seed, obviously, you've ran across that multiple different layers, as you're beginning to talk to people, is that struggle coming up in your conversations and if so what kind of advice are you're giving people in regard to that relationship to their people?
43:34
Yeah, you know it's kind of came out organically, it wasn't something I really started.
With intention.
But I always talk about adaptation, intention and consistency.
So those are the three pillars of resilience to me.
So, that's what we try and make our business.
That's what I try and do personally, and I think that for any type of young minded influencer type, that is trying to come up with what their Persona is.
43:55
They have to think about those things too.
If you're speaking on one particular topic and that's your platform.
What happens when that goes away?
Can you adapt does it have a message?
Is it something that people are really interested to talk about is their Tension and can you consistently do it?
I mean, a lot of people think that they want to be influencers and they want to podcast like you guys have or they want to have a channel that you can't post once every month or five times here.
44:19
You know, one time they're like it has to be consistent has to be a long-term thing.
So I mean I think within because I've had many people ask me that and that's I think it's relatable, they are too but I think of it my business to I mean our industry when we first came in was a carpet cleaning business that did some water damages.
44:35
So the way that we've adapted We are what we do and our service lines, our team.
How we Market With Our intention and then the consistency at which we do it, I think is why we're successful.
I think that's where the resilience come in and you can kind of take those three things and move them.
However, you want.
I think that works in any platform whether its young people or older seasoned professionals.
44:55
Hopefully I don't steer us off here at course too much here.
But do you feel like that drive towards the public speaking?
The teaching the training has that helped you play a more integrated role in the bringing up of your Team and your staff.
Is that make sense that question.
Yeah, I think so.
45:11
Yeah, I've always want to be a public speaker.
Like, it was just kind of in the back of my head.
I think that'd be cool, but you have to have a story, right?
So Servpro has been my story and all of these things that were talking about the Halloween store and the marrying a carny, these things are part of the story.
So yeah, I think being able to lead the team and be able to communicate to your team, what your intentions and wants are and to help them come up with the path.
45:31
I do think you have to have a little bit of that in you in order especially a team or sighs, you know, I'm not talking 25 people anymore.
Are so and especially across multiple platforms.
I mean we've got five locations, I'm not ever in front of all my team.
So for us to be able to explain our Mission Vision purpose and what we're doing every day and what our goals are.
45:49
I mean that takes a unique skill set.
So I think that when people are reaching out to floodlight and all of the, you know, I want to grow my business.
I want to have this huge business, I don't think they always understand what that really means and you're not necessarily in front of your customers anymore.
I mean, you have a totally different audience which is good and bad, you know?
46:07
I mean that happened to be a good fit for me, you know, but it's not for everybody.
I think you hit the nail on the head and I think it's one of the things that Chris and I often come across is people really under index on that being the skill set that they have to develop like it's easy for us to look at.
46:24
Well I need more systems of process.
We're certainly not discounting that.
That's fact, right?
But it's this, there is a leadership competency that is required for a system to scale and we reach certain thresholds and we've In some Superstars that have literally wrangled sheer chaos and somehow they've pulled that together and it looks like a company, right?
46:46
Right, yeah.
Oh yeah, yeah.
There's a lot of holes in the system and there and they've still kept it together, but my point is, is that that gifting that skill set is so important, so that we can give our team something to be inspired by and connected to.
So they want to row in the same direction that we're going, and it's really amazing to me to see how much we under index that.
47:07
Skill set yet.
We have the expectation that we've been providing.
Like, we want our people so engaged and following suit but they're really not hearing.
So like where was that point where you're like, oh I need to be doing this in order for the business to go the direction, we want it to go, I think that's where the relatability comes in.
47:23
By the way, you know I've being able for have them because of all walks of life, that work for you to be able to say okay yeah I am behind this person or this team, you know, and it's a team here.
So I want to be part of the winning team and we try and make sure that our employees have Monza like that.
They are team players.
47:39
Everybody wants that, right?
But I mean really truly help siphon those out but I think we kind of start getting stagnant and I was kind of doing stuff and I was realizing okay?
And my husband and our partners were all kind of the same way like we're kind of working in the business a little too much and like this is the time where it's time to go.
47:55
Like we got to figure out.
We truly if you're the leader and you're the CEO or CFO, a truly have your company, then that's what you're doing.
You're not doing the day-to-day stuff anymore.
You're looking on the progress forward so I think that was more like our Right?
Were stale or kind of just Dragged In.
It's time to go and I think that's when it finally resonated and we started and we took off like, when we made that change our business quadrupled.
48:18
So, but it was hard and uncomfortable, and I went to a class like right around that same time, it was a management class and that's what they were saying.
Like if you're going to grow it's uncomfortable.
Like it, if that's not you, then you're going to be stuck, right?
Where you are like you got to like working out like we were somewhat working out.
Like always to go like you're not going to get skinny.
48:35
Your get big muscles just by doing it.
One for a walk like it's uncomfortable and it has to be consistent, right?
You have to adapt and you have to do these things.
So I think, when I finally we go, okay, like I gotta get dirty and like this is going to be ugly for a while and it's either going to be really great or it's not and it turned out really great but the humility also comes in their it.
48:53
Maybe it's not you, you know, maybe you're not that person, maybe you have to bring some.
There are plenty of great frustration owners that aren't great speakers or leaders, but they are able to step back and go.
Yeah, this isn't me.
But I've got a partner that can do that.
No, I think there's a lot of wisdom in.
I want to ask a question and as a dude I often don't know exactly how to ask it but I think women in our industry one of these has been exciting for Brandon and I is the first of all we've had a chance to work with a lot of women Executives in this business, both in Arc in our own companies is downline employees and Leadership level colleagues and so forth.
49:28
I think we would both say like, we don't even really think in terms of differentiating between a male leader, a female leader, but we're in a blue-collar industry.
Were the service trades.
Historically not Many women bright in our industry that's been changing a lot.
I'm just curious, you know, for all of our female listeners, how has that played into your experience in the industry?
49:47
Have you encountered struggle resistance difficulty as a woman, executive owner, and how have you handled that have you processed that over the years?
Oh boy.
Have I ever?
Yeah, it was that humility again.
Yeah.
I try not to get my feelings hurt.
50:02
I don't think that anything is personal really at the end of the day, I'm everybody kind of a job to do or an agenda.
How to complete, at least, at that.
So I try whether female or male or try and take that out of it, but yeah, 100% had a million conversations.
Where can I get one of the guys on the phone?
Or to one of the guys call me to talk to me about this?
50:19
I'm like, no, I mean I know what I'm talking about.
We were at a large loss years ago and the consultant wanted nothing to do with me.
And so I was like, I just stepped back and that was fine and let him go and then he and kind of one of RPMs got into it.
He ended up coming back out, he goes, you walk it with me and I was like, Go.
50:38
And so we went, and it was fine.
It was great and closed.
I got paid and everything was good.
So, but now I'm starting to see, I mean, are super rise in females, especially in the field and the executive level.
And I think they're quite happy to have another female to talk to and the events that we go to.
50:54
And I mean, it's not just golf scrambles and pigeon shoots anymore.
Like there's, you know there's other stuff.
So I think they're actually have happy to have that voice on the other side so not necessarily that.
It's because my voice is female but it's Different.
Sometimes it stands out too.
So I love what's going on.
51:10
I think it's awesome.
And I like I said, I try not to get my feelings hurt, it is what it is.
And as long as we all they want to deal with a guy as long as the bill gets paid, at the end of the day.
That's fine.
Like I just won't go on about it.
They'll be another one.
I think it's good though like it's really good for men in the industry to hear that because I think Brandon I I wouldn't even thought it's just never been part of my world to ask for a female instead of a male in the trades are because we've done so much work with email adjusters and female.
51:37
Managers and female department leaders like that to where that's just very normalized for Brandon and I but, but I know that does happen and I think, yeah, I think sometimes maybe is owners, we don't realize that, that kind of thing is happening to our woman leaders, maybe in the field or amongst their downline employees, that there might be some of those attitudes and we can just be unaware.
51:56
And meanwhile, some of our female counterparts.
There's, there's struggle that's happening behind the scenes.
They do want to bring up, maybe they don't want, you know, complain about it, right?
So we try to be very aware of that in the field.
Two of, you know, I mean, production technicians and managers and things like that.
And I mean we've plenty of females that are top notch you know out work circles around some of the other ones.
52:17
So I mean we try and really take a look at the position and what those requirements are.
And that's taken a lot for the manager to talk about uncomfortable.
Like really taking a look at the nuts and bolts of what is this job require?
Can they do it or not?
And like, not pay attention to the name and is are the jobs getting performed check?
52:32
Then they are they qualify for the position?
Just one more question.
I think in that vein, I think part of this is just naive on my part but how real is that challenge for females in our industry?
Like if I'm somebody that's coming up in the ranks and I don't want to be a contents cleaner only, right?
52:49
Because we have certainly seen the industry as a charger in kind of weird pigeonhole there.
But like how realistic is it for a female on our team to be experiencing something that maybe we're not cognizant of As Leaders?
I mean I hear it more than I expect to still.
53:06
I mean it certainly He still comes up.
I mean we try to be really aware of it but it still comes up sometimes where they think yeah that their don't qualify for a position or or whatever.
You know what I am saying though.
Now, you were talking about how I like to reach out for help for things and with like, Servpro, I'll reach out.
A lot of times, they say, well, we need help with this particular thing and its construction or it's this and I'm getting more and more female referrals back which I love is being construction estimators.
53:31
And you know I mean certainly some stuff with administrative but I mean field site supers and things like that.
Sending females bag just without even thinking.
And I think that's fantastic.
If that was never the case before.
Yeah, I think that's an awesome sign.
Okay, so we kind of started tiptoeing in it but I think old you back out so talk to us more about this mission that you're on with the public speaking piece.
53:53
Obviously, there's curiosity that Drew you into that but there's got to be some Mission behind it.
Something in your hearts driving that what's that?
But have we not heard about that yet?
Yeah, so I mean like I said I'm a share of experience the time experiential learner so I like to share my experiences so that other people can learn to, like I said, I'll say whatever I've messed up on and I'm free for that.
54:13
Tell how I could have done it better but my mission is to help really entrepreneurs or young people or anybody they don't have to be young and in any case but individuals that want to be entrepreneurs or have leadership roles to succeed.
So I have secret Julie, I do speaking engagements and I also have socials.
54:30
I'm all those secret Julie's that on all the socials.
But I like to talk about that about my path to success over Teen years and a very non-traditional business for females and the successes that I've had the failures.
I've had selfishly, of course I want to meet some contacts for my business and help it grow.
54:48
But I think that I have a good story to tell.
I'm one of certainly a resilience and humility and relatability and all of those things.
But yeah.
So if they want to check out super Julie, I'm available to come and do some public speaking engagement.
What are the different ways that you can engage?
So you have these socials these events that you put on which sound really cool seen.
55:07
Of the photos.
I'm like Dan of some pretty Swanky, New York Hotel restaurants here in as I.
Wow, that is fancy.
So they have those events and then also, the kind of keynote, kind of stuff, people bring out of that.
Absolutely, I'm doing some keynote stuff but yeah, that's my main goal really right now is I'm working on some leadership workshops so a forum for both, not just females, just young professionals and advanced professionals to kind of come together and network, but learn some basic social skills as well.
55:36
I mean about, Proper way and dining, etiquette and email, etiquette things that I didn't necessarily learn than wish I would have.
But also for the hiring professionals, to learn about how to Market to these young people and how to talk to them.
I mean, it's a different world recruitment.
I'm learning is harder and harder by the day, especially in a post covid world.
55:55
So, we're trying to figure out a good way to kind of merge, the two and figure out how some people can grow.
And some people that need to grow can take advantage of some young energized folks.
Before we want to be, Added with your time, just help us walk away with something in terms of our own business and our own onboarding or recruiting Behavior.
56:15
If you could give us two things that we, as business owners, or leaders could be doing inside our organization to do that better, that bringing in of people doing something to attract the newer Workforce.
What would you tell us?
I think that what we've realized over the past year more than anything is they want to be heard and I'm hearing that a lot in our interviews and things like that is they wanted out.
56:37
It to make sure that they make a difference in what they're doing.
So restoration is a perfect world for that because we certainly do make a difference in so many platforms but also they want a path going forward and to make sure they can ensure their own way to do that.
So we're really trying to adapt our HR philosophy and our own business of.
56:54
How do we hear them?
They have great ideas.
And how did they feel comfortable talking to the leadership?
So that we can use those great ideas to make a better company?
So, I think it's not only a recruitment game, it's a retention game.
And as we all know, all know people are bouncing around all over the place.
57:09
So if we can keep them and keep the good ones, then that's certainly what we're trying to do.
That's awesome.
Smart honks, perfect.
Okay, so they're going to what is it speak with Julie.com?
Speak with Julie.com and are any other socials?
Yeah, yeah.
Okay.
Check me out.
57:24
Start to get a bit more aggressive on LinkedIn.
You've popped up in our feed now which is pretty good.
So we're seeing more of that.
What's the next thing on your horizon?
Is there a big excitement piece that you're headed for right now then of?
Yeah, I'm working on.
Some leadership workshops here locally just like we were talking about and then in two weeks at our serpro national Convention, and I'm hosting a women in the industry, I'm co-hosting a forum with some of the top women in Servpro some very excited about it that they debuted it last year at convention.
57:53
It was a number one, attended Workshop so I was pretty excited to be asked to co-host that.
No dude that is awesome.
And there's some Heavy Hitters Heavy Hitters.
Yeah.
Variety of folks doing some really really badass things.
Yeah.
Boy?
That's super cool.
So if you're headed to Convention and didn't know that was gonna happen.
58:11
Obviously trying it on your radar.
Yeah.
Thanks so much for hanging out.
Sounds just fine.
So yeah, absolutely.
I always enjoy a gas.
So it's a pleasure meeting people that have, you know, we've kind of said this a couple times, we've just had the honor of meeting people that are winning their just crushing it in so many different areas and avenues.
58:28
And yet they just wear this cloak of humility their shared their time, their experiences their real about what they've done.
The whole relatability thing is you tapped into And that's what we've seen with you and it was the reason that we wanted to have you on the show.
So folks, if Julie's kind of new on your radar pay attention, she is on LinkedIn and the other socials course we kind of hyper focus on LinkedIn but in general, I think all of us need to continue to build a sphere of people that are talking about leadership in a real way and that are willing to talk about what it takes to actually develop that competency and not act as if they came out.
59:00
Knowing it all and Julie, you're certainly one of those people for us to pay attention to.
So thanks again for your time.
It's very good thing.
She gotta give back I'm a firm believer in that.
So I like telling my story.
Yeah brother right on.
Okay, well till next time often bikes you back at some point, get an update.
59:16
All right it would truly circuit.
That's right now that's growing.
It's great.
Yeah thanks for your time.
Julia will see it, right?
All right, everybody, he thinks for joining us for another episode of head heart and boots.
And if you're joined the show, beloved this episode, please, hit follow only known as subscribe.
59:34
Write us a review or share this episode So with a friend, share it on LinkedIn.
Share it, via text, whatever.
It all helps.
Thanks for listening.
So with a friend, share it on LinkedIn.
Share it, via text, whatever.
It all helps.
Thanks for listening.