0:07
Welcome Back To The Head heart and Boots podcast.
I'm Chris and I'm Brandon.
Join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses we leave this industry.
My dude, I think that I'm not sure what's happening.
0:25
I want to be highly like my brain just ready to rock and roll.
I think I might be getting hungry or something, I just kind of fizzled.
Out there for a moment.
We didn't participate in sober October, but you and I are doing a sober man.
Yeah.
So no no.
Intoxicants Piazza hasn't been hard.
0:42
Nah, it has been hard at all, but, but you and I do well pretty control but was totally.
I was pretty temperate.
But the other thing I think is good that you talked about yesterday and I'm doing the same thing is, I'm really trying to up some of my other disciplines that I think sometimes it's like booze or whatever your thing is, can be.
1:01
That thing a kind of takes the edge off.
Yep, at the end of the day and The Abbey.
Is it that way?
Right?
Just calm down a little bit, calm nerves, whatever.
But there's other things that are actually helpful.
Yeah.
So you and I've been cranking up our workouts.
Yep.
And I see your biceps Poppin and the veins popping.
1:16
It really pisses me off because I feel that's mainly the steroids but that that is you know, and like I've been trying to get more consistent with my sauna and like my evening routine to sleep, you know, and stuff like that.
Do you ever get the feeling that when we talk about the stuff, some people just go oh gag.
1:33
Yeah, probably Really whatever certainly if that's how you want to live your life.
Yeah.
Knows your name.
But teller is you want to under perform that way?
That's still, you're so nice.
So today I was going through my notes, I just use the Apple notes app and when I get a little inspiration or I'm coming off a Consulting call, or I'm sit on my back deck and I'm thinking a stuff.
1:53
I got a little notes here and I had have one.
I wanna dive into libuse, you understood see where it goes, but before we do that, we've got some sponsors that really helped make this thing happen.
And Keep the dream alive.
That's right here.
It had heart boots and the first sponsor partner is lift.
2:09
If I lift a fi man, you've just made us look good.
So, many times Zach in your team.
Gosh, ra, you know, in all of us have our favorite vendors and stuff that we've come across over the years.
And we just love to tell our friends about it because we always get a good report back, Haji sign up with those folks.
2:26
Hey, you working with those guys and you get those enthusiastic responses and you're like hell yeah.
I like sharing good news this This is the gospel of Google reviews.
Yeah.
Yeah, we are spreading a, let's face it.
Everybody that's listening to this understands the power of 5 star and four point eight, two five star Google reviews, on your Google, my business profile.
2:48
Is that what it is?
Now?
I don't know if that's Judge Google business profile, not Google my business and I was Co Google business profile.
I want people to Google my business, I don't know if that has any 10.
I want him to find four point eight two five stars, right?
So we all understand the power of that.
All of us who shop, we make His own service vendors and products based on the reviews we read, right?
3:07
That's right.
But the other thing that we learned from Zach and his team.
We've had verified by been Rich, ERT it and other industry professionals.
A space is the power of regular routine, Google reviews, just not getting a big batch because you throw some contest in your company but week in week out, all year every year, Google reviews, having a strategy for that is Mission.
3:30
Critical is become an apparently, it's part of the wagon.
That Google really gauges that the actual value in sentiment around your business.
Because anybody can go throw some money on the table with their employees and get them to ask a bunch of times for a month.
But are you doing that week and week out and Zach?
3:47
And his team of really solve for that in the sense that they've created a platform that automates that for you and their conversion is way better.
So we've talked about this, some of you out there you have companies that are doing a thousand plus jobs a year, Zach and his team have built a platform.
4:04
Gets 20 to 25 percent conversion rate when they ask for Google reviews, 20 to 25% a time.
They are getting them for the customers, think about that, some of you for multiple years, been doing thousands of jobs a year and you're sitting on 120, Google reviews, and you may have 4.8 Stars, whatever, but what Zach and his team have created.
4:27
Basically, the expectation now is you should be getting 200 plus reviews every year.
Some of his clients have or 500 800 1000 Google reviews that should be you many of you listeners should be you.
So sign up with Zach go to lift if I.com for / flood by because he will like he's done for every client.
4:48
We sent to him virtually, he's made a significant jump in their Google reviews in just the first six eight weeks of working with them.
Lift buy.com Force us, blood light you you will thank us and please do send us a text message when you're like holy crap we added 30 or right views in the first six weeks.
It's amazing.
5:03
Yeah.
Right now when okay see you in our magazine.
I can't imagine there's any of you that listen to the show.
That doesn't know Michelle and or see in our magazine or what they're doing.
You should still advertise with us to Michelle because there's new people come in every day.
That's right guys, if you're not a subscriber just become one, it's easy, it's great content.
5:25
It comes to you on a consistent basis you can leverage it with your team, you can leverage it for yourself as business owners.
She's the networker, she's the Shaker, she's the Hector had a great time with her not that long ago at riaa and just saw her in action doing exactly what it is that they do best.
5:41
And that is bringing great content.
Great information surrounding the industry and connecting people to what matters, providing a voice for us.
Providing guidance for us as restorers in the industry.
So we often lie refer to as a friend of the industry and we just feel strongly about that.
Like I think that's a simple way to put Michelle's relationship and seeing our magazines relationship to our industry.
6:01
Their friend us be a subscriber.
Wertha, Michelle is like, you know, who she reminds me.
Was she's like the old school newspaper, like publisher, you know, back in the day, right, where it's like the publisher of the local newspaper was everywhere.
6:16
All the time is that they knew all the people, right?
They were plugged into government.
They were plugged into all the key businesses in town, and they just knew what the hell was going on.
Is that a lot of power because they could, like get it the right interviews on it?
I like Michelle's kind of like that, that old-school publisher in a lot of ways yet, applying all the new school.
6:33
All tactics, you know.
So anyway, it's fun.
Katie where are we going here to note that I had here, is all about patterns, let me unpack that a little bit and and I actually can't remember the Genesis of where this note came up for, it could have been on my back.
Porch, could have been right after a Consulting call, but it's just this idea we talked about this.
6:49
A lot is as Leaders, we ultimately are always gonna end up with what we create what we allow and to that point, this issue of patterns, you know, the other thing we talked about we talked a lot about to is just this All that you have to create a safe environment where your leaders and your people can fail if we're not failing as a company.
7:11
We're probably not pushing very hard if we're not failing to the company, we probably don't have very high expectations for ourselves if we're not failing.
We're probably not trying very big thinks, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
And I can feel the tension and what you're saying in terms of the topic already.
7:27
Yeah.
Right.
Because some people are like, well, I don't want to fail.
I don't want to do a bad job but hang with us.
Yeah, I mean this failure.
Juror is a key component in achievement.
I think everybody knows that, right?
It's real.
But the question is, how do you manage failure?
And how much is too much?
7:43
And the way I was thinking about it, when I, when I wrote this note was, it has to be okay to fail, but we have two Guardians calves in a pattern.
Oh, the failure.
Yeah.
That patterns of failure that they sneak up on us, right?
Because it's like we get so busy about our business, that one Earlier and one corrective and coaching conversation.
8:07
It's very easy for us.
It is just a fall off of our radar, right?
And for another failure to happen in the same kind of category the same topic or the same area of the business.
And then another failure happens, three weeks later and then two weeks later and now all of a sudden we have a failure that is now become normative.
8:29
We've allowed that fail standard, it becomes it actually, we become Um, our patterns, some of us have had seasons in our life where we have been 20 pounds, overweight how that happened?
It didn't happen because you ate that piece of chocolate cake and you add a second one on your birthday.
8:46
It happened because you had two pieces of chocolate cake on your birthday.
And then three days later you've finished the chocolate cake that your mother-in-law made for you.
And then you went to the grocery store and you bought another a few.
There's this one grocery store in our town that you can go and $4 is this freaking 4 inch square of 3 inch tall cake with the butter cream.
9:10
Ice cream and Ridiculousness.
Right.
And so then you started buying that after lunch every week and then it was twice a week and then you had a shitty day and so you went you had a second piece of it in the afternoon because you felt like shit and you've bought it on the way home to eat it and stuff, your faces.
9:26
I've never done that before.
I've never parked in a parking lot and eaten a piece of cake.
Oh, I I promised you some personal experience there, but but that is a pattern.
Yeah.
And that's how we get fat, yeah, right.
9:42
And our business suffers from the same thing and I think it just starts to happen.
We allow one failure to turn into 22, 23, 24, 25, and, and, and we become that's where that's where those behaviors, get normalized in our business in and I feel like I can identify many examples of that in my own Life in the businesses, I've run in the leadership roles I've had where it just creeps up on you.
10:09
So I think we should talk about that.
So interesting, it's as you're saying that part of me immediately goes to, it's almost like the dichotomy of failure.
It's the the other side of this failure component, where you have people who are afraid to fail for the right reasons, right?
10:26
Like meaning, we don't want to create a pattern, or we don't want our brand to, you know, take a hit.
We don't want customer.
Us to slip all those things to where it becomes very difficult for us to delegate handoff trust our team members develop our team members.
10:42
And so there is this interesting relationship where you've got this, we can allow because we don't pay attention, we don't conduct an after-action review.
We don't coach on when we didn't hit the mark.
And then the opposite side is like, I'm so afraid to get engaged in that process.
11:01
Anyways, it's easier for me to maintain control.
And hold up tight against the chest, The Playbook.
Yeah.
And neither one of them work and I think that's a real important place for us to start from is don't hear, we're saying fail all the time and don't the opposite of that is not the winning strategy either.
11:20
It's this Balancing Act of we're going to put some things about our business and the hands of our team members, we're going to be comfortable with the fact that that will not get executed 100% And that we're going to Have this follow-up routine of ensuring that we inspect it, we talked about it and then we coach our improve on it right boy.
11:40
Maybe, you know, I think you're touching on is we talked a lot about battle rhythms and battle, rhythms are they literally are the antidote to negative patterns Foreman?
Yes, we're conducting.
This battle rhythms appropriate.
Like we talked about the importance of production meetings.
We talked about the importance of having accurate data, and our Whip, and reviewing it in a specific way with specific people every single So I mean, here's just one.
12:05
Other practical example, we were talking with one of our clients earlier and just talking how their vehicles look like shit because they don't have a battle Rhythm around their morning, stand to their vehicle, inspections their safety inspection it presumably, they didn't bring it up, but if their vehicles look, terrible.
12:21
Chances are we're not doing Vehicle Safety checks.
Either a 10, you.
And I've had some very negative experiences with Fleet where those safety checks aren't happening and you get significant maintenance issues.
It's like shit.
This did not need to happen.
Yeah.
But again - patterns for me and I mean is example is and I think one of the things that drives it in our businesses, we have these massive influx is in business and we're forced to adapt and overcome.
12:48
We allow a temporary failure in some areas of our process in order to meet customer needs, right?
And keep the business moving in the time and space of a dramatic weather event or Wildfire It, Whatever It Is Write the cause is this massive Spike of business to come in and we make these exceptions but we allow is exceptions to persist over a couple weeks.
13:12
Three weeks, then we start billing for all that work.
We took it in and then we're busy collecting and we just keep making exception after exception.
And now all of a sudden we have a fleet that looks like shit.
We have GP numbers that are in the toilet because we're not managing.
Our Pro are not pre-budget in our construction pretty like all the.
13:29
Now, all of a sudden we've normalized these negative behaviors And we're having to crawl out of a hole in terms of our customer experience.
Our profitability.
Our sales efforts a, he know.
Well and I think the reality of it is this mirrors up with it's not just failure.
13:46
It's just it's a I guess you still throw in the field cutter just not following standard.
Yeah, just not following process.
So I think it's important for us to also remember, we're not talking about like, some catastrophic falling off.
Some know, it's simply, like I didn't inspect what I Spected.
14:03
I allowed that behavior pattern to go once twice three times on checked and now they've adopted a whole new policy that I'm not even aware of right Henry Cloud.
You get what you what you build, or what you allow.
So I think that that is a critical element of it and I want to be careful.
14:21
We maybe don't go too deep into that side because I do feel like that's an area that we do work through pretty commonly, but I think it's this maybe some of the fear around failure around, what is healthy.
Failing.
Can we make it that pocket a little bit in terms of?
I think you agree with me, I see failure.
14:38
Different than a Miss on standard or a Miss on process.
I'm thinking more the fail piece of we go out and we try a new service line.
We try a different model because our team is expanding so quickly.
And now what we did before doesn't scale.
14:55
So now we're trying a different change in our org chart where we're changing some positions within the organization that we don't have it all.
I plotted out yet like we think it's going to work.
We have a reasoning that we're saying hey this new org structure makes sense, but then we got to have to play.
15:12
We have to try.
Oh, yeah.
And we have to be confident about two things.
It won't go exactly as we planned and that you can recover from that and continue to iterate it until you get what you want, right back.
Totally agree.
And I think it's a good that's important to differentiate.
All right.
15:29
Head heart and Boots.
Listeners want to stop here, just a moment and thank our Underwriting sponsor floodlight Consulting Group as all of, you know.
Right, you know, branded and I this is our passion project at hardboots his but it's also a way of more and more that are Consulting clients find us and in effect, they interview US, write those even listen to show for a while.
15:50
You get to know who we are, right what we're about.
So if head heart boots is valuable to you.
One of the best things you can do is share it with your friends and it's been incredible to watch just the audience grow and we still get text messages.
For many of you about shows that you really like and impacted you.
16:06
So that's number one and please keep doing that.
Many of you have been huge, Advocates of the show.
We also just want to remind you to.
If you're a Restoration company owner, and you're interested in a partner in your growth, you want some help building out systems, developing your leadership teams helping set up the infrastructure for you to scale and grow into the company that you're trying to build.
16:28
That's what we do.
That's what we do is we come alongside Restoration company leaders, we help equip.
Thumb and we help support them in that growth trajectory.
So, if you're looking for that, go to floodlight gr p.com, potentially, we could be a great match for each other.
Another way that we really do serve our client base in our sphere of influence, is through our Premier Partners.
16:47
We work really hard to bet those folks that we believe bring a level of value to the industry that it can really be leveraged in a way to have a sincere positive impact on your business.
We take that very seriously, the folks that we create those kind of ongoing Partnerships.
That's not a check the Box kind of scenario.
17:04
It's it's we really see strategic alignment in the value that they bring, we see value in the way that their leadership teams and their partners are developed.
And we've done very sincere work of ensuring that these folks that we introduce our clients and our sphere to can actually create vetted value.
17:20
So go check out floodlights, your p.com forward, slash Premier / partners, and see if there's some folks on there that you can connect with and begin developing, some other resources to support your growth and your business.
There are so many opportunities in this industry, in this type of business for us to cut a corner to skip a step in our process.
17:47
And you're right, I don't think that's fan alot of times its conscious, right?
Because it's like we're forced to adapt at times.
But I think the error that a lot of us make in, this isn't just true in restoration.
I think it's across all businesses.
You get a big huge client, a new client.
18:02
And it's like all hands.
On Deck.
So I don't think it necessary even matters what business were talking about per se, but it's when we make exceptions to our standard where our process or procedure, whatever, when we allow those exceptions to become the rule, like it happens faster than we think, like you, and I observed, that a bunch of times.
18:22
It's like, is it after the third time, is it after the 11th time?
I think that's different with, with each, what, whatever the topic is right.
But there's something I think, is leaders that We have to stay on top of because really, really quickly, the standard gets eroded to wear, then there's a whole bunch of other negative things.
18:43
Like things that that affects in the business that I think it's one of the things we have to be mindful of As Leaders battle.
Rhythms are the thing.
I think that solves for a lot of that, right?
If we're having a routine leadership meeting if we're having one-on-ones, with our people for having like we talked about the production meeting, I think even with larger gatherings Earrings that are really more emotional and culture fueling, like a all company meetings.
19:09
I think it's even important.
They're like there that that affects our Cadence and standards.
Here's something that immediately comes my we've been talking about this a lot with some folks, both downline clients actually came up, not long ago and a recording with Rachel Stewart from accelerate.
19:24
This idea of when we think about our org structure and we think about our leadership roles or just the roles in our in our team, in general, one of the Things, I see people kind of struggle with and I've done it.
I mean, I've struggled with this for years is we get really keyed in on the productivity portion of our tasking and responsibilities.
19:46
So we're really keyed in on Project managers have to do XYZ business and we sell this much work.
And, you know, we want a mitigation department manager to make sure that we're producing the job and that they're producing it margin all great.
20:02
That's great.
But there's Is also this very important part that basically helps address what you're talking about that if we are such a skeleton crew when it comes to leadership within the ranks and we see this with a lot of companies that are trying to break out of that 356 million.
Mark, they just struggle to put in those down, line leaders, like Department Management in the cost to you is the consistency in Failure.
20:26
It's that's where these patterns, develop, because it's just very difficult for one person to have their Eyes on enough targets to keep us out of trouble and then we get kind of sucked into this idea.
But if I hire, right, I don't have to oversee, those kinds of things and that's just not accurate.
20:44
There's a difference between hiring, right?
And removing the path of least resistance and hiring wrong.
A wrong is a wrong.
I get it and you can't manage wrong.
Yeah.
But you do still need to manage and lead the right hires.
They still need guidance, they still need some accountability.
21:01
They still need a battle buddy.
To ensure that they stay on the right path.
And so, one of the things that can be difficult when we're looking at our PL is understanding, it's very easy for me to say, oh, I'm a, I'm adding a sewing.
So Ka salary to payroll, do I really need that?
21:18
And when you look at, he said, well yeah, I mean we're able to get out to every job.
It seems like we're not having any issues getting the work done in a fairly efficient time frame.
All that's great.
And it is certainly one of the things that you use to measure that need but don't forget the Tunity cost associated with not having management that person wouldn't wear their key responsibilities is inspecting.
21:42
The body of work from that team or that department or that location.
That's how you keep things from spinning out from under you.
One of the things that we talk a lot about is bite-sized chunks, right?
We we've been doing a ton of time blocking with people lately.
21:57
It's funny the patterns that you get into but, you know, one of the pieces of that is, it's so easy for All of us.
I think we talked about it in the project management episode where you get this mentality of man.
I'm grinding gears.
But Thursday, Thursday boy, I'm coming in.
22:13
I'm going to get into all our files.
I'm going to really and look at things and make sure that we're doing.
Okay, Thursday, morning rolls around.
You know, you have to look at a million files to have any context of what your business is actively doing.
So you're slow to do it and then as soon as the phone rings, are a fires, put in front of you, you're excited to go.
22:31
Jump on that thing and not do.
The hard work of inspecting, what you expect and then you do that week after week after week.
And now we have project managers that are no longer following the process.
You have technicians that are under equipping jobs you've got right?
22:47
And the list goes on and on.
And so I think that's a big piece of this is if we're going to ensure that we don't allow failure to become a pattern, we have to have bandwidth in our leaders ability, there are leaders space to make sure that we can begin.
23:03
Getting into those things and we can be looking at them, right?
Yeah.
And for those of you that are owner operators and you're like, you're kind of you're probably hearing this year, like I'm kind of pushing up against that ceiling right now where I'm at the limit of what I can inspect.
And that's kind of when, you know, you need to invest in more leadership, is when you no longer can keep a pulse and you start see those negative patterns emerge.
23:25
Could you just can't be everywhere at once?
You know where we see this?
A lot, as in sales organizations, right?
Where a lot of restoration companies, Bill to hire Sales Management until they're beyond that point, right?
Where it's like, they hire for Independence, that higher for experience and stuff like that, and they just think God's throw my salespeople on the field.
23:47
Likes a great investment.
This is how you grow this.
Like yes, yes, that is how you grow.
But at the same time, salespeople have to be managed to have to be managed.
And so if you're not at a point yet where you can afford the spend for a sales manager, ER, someone pass to oversee that department.
24:07
You see this all the time is that an owner?
Their ambitious, they understand the value of hiring salespeople, but they don't understand the importance of managing them and in a consistent manner, having certain kpi's activity, expectations and inspecting it.
24:24
And the other side of it too, is that we can certainly have our sales meetings.
We can ask all the right questions but there's a reality That if someone is not getting out in the field with them, there are negative patterns.
Yeah, that are taking hold.
Yeah.
24:39
And one of the things I talked about with our sales leaders in our owners is whenever we're not seeing the sales that we want, it is always a function of one, or both things.
It's always a function of quantity, we're not putting.
In the right amount of effort with the right people or quality, excuse me, quantity and that we're not doing enough of the right effort.
25:01
Yeah.
Quality.
We're not doing the right effort with the right people.
Rice is always going to be a function of that.
The only way you really know what the hell's going on with your sales, team is getting out there and seeing who are they cold?
Calling who are they?
Talking to, what kinds of questions are they asking, what sort of the substance of their sales meetings?
25:20
What, you know, that is the only way you can do it.
And so many of us that we have not put the attention on that, that's required.
Right.
Yeah.
So yeah, you know, I kind of maybe A working towards Landing the plane here, a little bit.
Let's consider this a word.
25:35
We start in this conversation.
There's this element of patterns versus event patterns.
Right?
We we know we're going to have failures, right?
It's gonna happen.
So we have to do everything in our power to prevent that from becoming the pattern, as you said, or the new Norm.
But then balancing that with, we have to consistently create a relationship with our team where they are trying.
25:56
We're we're delegating to them where we're putting the opportunity in their hands, and giving them the Ants to execute and try.
But then there's this piece.
Like, do we have enough availability?
Do we have enough bandwidth in our leadership in our org structure that we have the ability to second.
26:15
Check to inspect.
What we're asking to ensure that that failure doesn't become a pattern, it's kind of funny.
Actually thinking through that dichotomy, I think it's the right word, right dichotomy, I guess between those two.
Is that is the answer the way that you can balance that where we Don't allow it to become pattern where we don't swing to the opposite end where we just micromanage everything is it's that space in the middle.
26:38
Do you have enough bandwidth to to monitor the team's progress or process?
I think it's that and I think it's committing to the right conversation with our people.
Frankly, this episode, I believe, is a great conversation for an all company meeting or a leadership.
Team meeting is to talk about patterns versus events and it really can dictate how we lead our people.
26:59
Our downline people how we lead our Solves, right.
And so, like I'm a big Friday, Friday guy, like Friday's my reflection day.
I've just kind of built that in and is some version of afternoon morning sitting with my coffee and just thinking.
Yeah, she's thinking about try and part of my thing is what are some patterns that are forming here that I need to get on top of and I need to Stamp Out in my own personal behaviors.
27:25
But then also just throughout the week is working with clients, which is really trying to get quick.
At seeing these patterns, as they're forming versus after we've found them.
You don't, I mean after they've been festering, right?
An eroding, our culture, and our profitability, and all the things.
27:44
So, I think it, it comes down to committing to a certain conversation when failures when an event happens, when your sales rep has a bad week in terms, they're leaving behaviors.
And their excuse is, I just had a lot of events this week.
It's talking through that.
28:00
Listen, hey, We get it.
It was an abnormal week.
We can acknowledge that.
It's certainly would have been more difficult to maintain the other disciplines we had.
But the question is, we're going to have a lot more events in our future.
Yeah.
What needs to happen for us in?
28:16
Either our work up to the event week preparation, right.
Maybe it also has to do with our follow-up from events.
What kind of system do we need to put in place to eat?
You know, are we reaching?
The point is a sales team where we need to get a sales assistant and admin for the team to assist with some of these things.
28:31
Things to allow you to stay in the field and is still get your Field Time enduring.
If you know what I mean, it's looking at the event and saying okay what can we learn from this?
How should we be processing?
This thing that was it was a -, you know, it's like shoot, we have three events and we only got one, sales meeting and for cold calls in mmm.
28:52
We don't want to repeat that.
So what do we need to fix in our system?
I think it's committing to that kind of conversation, both at a one-on-one level.
Cartman level, and I do, there's a leadership team.
It's like if we have a week where, you know, we have 14 jobs, close out at 50%, less GP than our Target.
29:11
So, whoa, whoa, that's a bad week.
What went into that and how do we solve for it?
And not, hey, you guys are a bunch of ding-dongs, you know?
It's like, we don't, we don't have to, like, slap our hand on the table and be like, you know, just be on fire pissed off and angry energy that comes week to, that's it.
29:30
That's when it happens.
A second touch.
No but it's like it's like hey guys, alright stuffs gonna happen, why did this happen?
Was there some sort of existential fight outside thing that affected our whole team?
Probably you know but that that probably that thing is gonna happen again.
29:46
So how do we build this into our conversation?
This dipped differentiating and really identifying it together as okay, we had this event happen.
Could we maybe able to avoid a bit?
Yeah.
But who cares it happened?
And that thing's gonna happen again.
What do we do?
Yeah.
So is a team.
30:02
We handle it better, you know.
Yeah.
And it doesn't become a pattern and I think that's super insightful.
I mean, that's just great.
That's great leadership.
It doesn't have to be a full-blown AA are, right?
It is scenario of, it's just the way we poke and prod and peel back that the layers of the onion and a normal production meeting or in a sales meeting like you're talking about investigate the response.
30:25
Rio will XYZ so I couldn't do anything about it.
Right?
Well, it was all flooring on that job.
It was hard to get margin or whatever the case may be.
Is not allowing that to be an excuse, but use it as an opportunity to problem solve and decide is the strategy needs to be updated or modified.
That's great.
30:40
I think a piece of this too and we wrap up on this.
It's just that part of this topic is managing emotions in our business.
Sure, you know, it's like when we crack down on somebody from a single event and and single event means different things.
Things because there's such high frequency in our business of just that we do a lot of repetitive behaviors and processes throughout the year.
31:01
Right?
And so it's going to be different in every situation.
What what is a pattern right?
There are some things if it happens once a quarter, it's a negative pattern.
Yeah.
It's like it's a threat to the business and then there's other things where, if something is, if a negative outcome is happening, once every couple weeks, That's a - threatening pattern and so it's going to you just have to assess that is the magnitude of this exception to our process or corner cut or a failure of some kind in terms of standard happening.
31:33
That often is that a threat to the business or not.
If that continued every two weeks you have to judge that every situation is a little bit different.
When we say body slam somebody from a failure, or a process, whatever the shame, right, the shame that people like, we don't want to make people feel You like an asshole for a mistake or a judgment error that you know, is just going to happen?
31:57
Yeah.
It's very different, right?
But there's a lot of businesses right now where there's a real - morale in the company because we're cracking down on every mistake or poor judgment that somebody makes whereas really what we're trying to avoid is patterns of that singular events are not going to change our business, they're not going to sabotage our success patterns.
32:20
Vataj.
Our success patterns sabotage, the culture events.
We can sabotage our culture from a single event by reacting to a poorly, right?
Yeah.
And so I just anyway, hopefully there's something to take away for for our audience, there.
32:36
I know even just now processing, they're not like, oh, this is really good for me to think about, I wrote this know, like, two weeks ago and I'm like, yeah, I could reflect on this somewhere, you know.
Well, it's very applicable to our business as well. % e.
We have the same exposure Out to failure becoming a pattern as anybody else.
32:53
And we saw and we didn't part of my notes where obviously the flip of this is true.
Like, creating positive patterns is more than just an event.
And a lot of times will invest in a new behavior and will get all excited about it.
And we'll do this thing and it works so well.
33:10
We stopped doing it because we never put in the effort.
It's not a habit to make it a pattern and then normalize it in the business.
We talk about building ruts is like concept of like, on the Freeway right, ruts form.
And of course, it's a negative example that you hate it when you're on a freeway that has these big rats in especially when it's raining.
33:27
But the concept is right is when you're driving on an old freeway, it almost pulls your vehicle into those rats.
And that's kind of what we want to do.
In our business is, when I have these deep ruts, we're like, new people can come in on the on ramp and just slide right into that rut and it tells more to go.
33:44
Yeah, right.
Yeah.
It's like it's hard not to think about that word in a - can I know?
It's where we need a better analogy.
Is that I got so far right.
Everybody knows what it means would like, you get pulled into that rut in the fast lane, you like that natural alignment if you will, where the traffic's been going.
Yeah, exactly.
34:01
All right guys, thanks for hanging out with us guys next time.
All right, everybody, he thanks for joining us for another episode of head heart and boots.
And if you're enjoying the show, he loved this episode.
Please hit follow only known as subscribe.
Write us a review or share this episode with a friend, share it on.
34:20
LinkedIn.
Share it, via text, whatever it all helps.
Thanks for listening.
LinkedIn.
Share it, via text, whatever it all helps.
Thanks for listening.