0:00
Wow, How many of you have listened to the Head Heart and Boots podcast?
I can't tell you that reaction, how much that means to us.
Welcome back to the Head Heart and Boots podcast.
I'm Chris.
And I'm Brandon.
Join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses we lead.
0:17
This new camera angle makes my arms look smaller than yours.
I'm noticing that and I really appreciate it.
I thought you did that on purpose.
No, I I don't.
I didn't and I I am not happy with it.
Hey all, thanks so much for listening to the show.
Hey, if you're not already following, please do so and ultimately share, right?
0:35
Like the coolest currency that we have in terms of supporting this is share it with a friend.
Share it with somebody, a colleague.
Appear one of your downline team members.
Let them be able to take advantage of the information you're already leveraging in your favor.
And finally, guys, if you hear a show that really moves you, that really moves the needle, will you please leave us a review?
0:54
Those five star reviews help us a time.
Right on.
And listen, if you're trying to grow your business, you might consider checking out floodlights business opportunity audit, it's free.
We provided at no charge.
It's actually what we use to assess new clients as they come in.
1:10
It's 110 point assessment for your business and we've now decided to give access to the general public for it.
So go and take our business opportunity audit at floodlightgrp.com.
It's going to help you identify the biggest gaps and opportunities in your business right now.
And at the end, it'll assign you a health score to let you know exactly where your business stands right now.
1:30
So go check it out floodlightgrp.com/audit and take the BOA.
It's a great way to get a pulse on your business, amigo.
How are you?
I'm good.
You know I'm digging.
I know people have already seen this now by a handful of episodes, but dude, the vibe in the studio is.
1:45
Yeah, it's very.
It's cool.
I like it.
I like where we're going with this.
We got some dates to make, but I like where we're we're headed.
You are all kind of off on the screen.
You do tend to like hang to the outside.
I don't know.
I don't think I have ABO problem or anything.
You'd let me know, right?
If I just had like a walking stink issue.
You know how I love conflict.
2:02
That's so true.
OK, dude, I I've actually been kind of excited about today's topic.
It's been something I think that mentally has been top of mind And ultimately to be brutally honest is I feel like I'm having a bit of an episode of I don't want to say rethinking because I think a lot of the guidance that we've leaned into around coaching our people's performance is accurate, is effective.
2:25
But I also, it's like on the back of the last several client interactions.
I also know this is just one of the most hard things to do is understanding when coaching someone up is feasible and when our responsibilities are around.
That and more importantly and and actually where I want to go today is the honor and the fun that actually exists in the space.
2:46
When you begin mentoring and coaching your people up now, I think the wrestling match is always going to be when is it just time to pull the ripcord because there's obviously we're not having a positive impact.
So I I definitely want to touch on that a little bit.
Anyways, bad way to open.
Here's the idea.
I want to dig into some of the opportunities and some of the rewards of coaching our people up.
3:08
And I also want to tackle kind of this idea that there's actually far more mental influence that we have than we think with kind of an interesting story.
But how's that land with you?
Where do you want to go with that?
Yeah, dude, it's such an important topic.
I was actually just getting off the phone with one of the sales managers.
3:23
We work with the leads of sales team for one of our clients.
And so this topic is fresh for me too.
Yeah, yeah, it's good.
Yeah, OK, so I'm going to open with a story and this is like, this is real stuff.
This has happened with me specifically with one of a very talented person, certainly somebody that we respect and care for deeply even today.
3:41
Anyways, let's get into it.
So years ago we had an opportunity to work with an executive coach and she dude, I think we have brought her up many times before.
We just love the heck out of her.
She was so influential on both of us.
Are a lot of our leadership team Just very forward thinking in terms of how interacting with our staff and our people?
4:01
And one of the things that came up is, is I was just, I can't even remember if this individual's name came up specifically.
But the point was I was relating to her like many of our clients do to us, some frustrations around certain behaviors because I felt like ultimately was taking this a player and this one or two things was like knocking them down to AC Plus plus it's like this is a person that can crush at an elite level, right?
4:25
And so I was voicing that with her and she really tripped me out.
She said, hey, have you ever realized or thought about the how much influence you have subconsciously on your people?
You know, and I'm like going back to like, well, yes, I understand I have a responsibility as a leader, you know?
Or I kind of likened it to like as a parent, the thing I say to my kids is going to stick around, right, can have this lasting residue.
4:47
But then what she ended up doing was she walked me through this process.
If she said if you start speaking into this person, the thing that you see them doing well, even if it's in contrast with what they actually are executing on, on a day-to-day basis, let's say for this example it was follow up and follow through, OK.
5:07
She basically said if you start planting the seed that you recognize this person's capability or consistency in this thing, watch what happens with their actual behavior.
So I'm this is so manipulative, so I'm just kind of tripped out about this whole thing and this I start nerding out on this.
5:26
I'm like, OK, so I highlight my person.
You're like what?
If what if?
Yeah, actually what if this works because this is trippy.
So.
So I identify my person mentally, I'm like, OK, that's my target, right.
So literally that day, later that day, individual walks into my office to talk about a project and a relationship and this particular individual a capable player, but their follow up and follow through was sagging significantly to the point that it was definitely a performance hindrance.
5:51
And I remember that this individual what I remember them often saying little statements about themselves that are affirmed this failure.
OK yeah.
So this person for all intents and purposes had identified with the fact this is their weakness but they weren't getting better.
6:07
OK, so I end up later that day individual walks into my room or walks into my office and I'm not trying to blow smoke up their ass.
Right.
Because that's a no go.
But anyways, I plant the seed.
I can't remember what the specific really you.
Speaking to like you know this persons capable, yes.
6:24
Better, yes.
And you know and that's part of our frustration as leaders is that we see that our folks have potential and then we see them just kind of stepping on themselves for a reason.
So anyways, I I planted the seed.
I was kind of trying it and I say I said something to the fact like hey, nice work on XYZ's job.
6:42
The follow up and the follow through that you did on that was excellent, man.
I and I basically kind of followed it with this.
Like what was it?
You're so great at that, so.
Let's get to straight though.
OK, so you dug into his project files, yes?
And you found some jobs in Dash that had great note.
6:58
Yeah, clear communication.
Yeah, consistency in in terms of the frequency, it was current.
It was relative, Yeah.
So it was real.
So you found a good example?
I did.
And I highlighted OK and I just said, hey, great job with this, excellent communication follow up.
You're really good at this, great at that.
7:14
And I didn't miss a beat.
Like I just, I didn't make that a ceremony.
I just kind of threw it in there and then went right to the topic that he wanted to talk about.
Yeah.
So we have our discussion.
We go about a couple days later.
I like, I remember I tried to compress this like this was in a short period of time because it was kind of like my own internal experiment.
7:33
OK.
So a few days later, same thing.
I see him passing in the hallway.
I refer back to a specific.
So this isn't blowing smoke.
There's a specific example.
And then basically what I'm doing is I'm leveraging that into a global statement is what I'm doing.
So again, there was like some piece of information with a subcontractor, something I heard about, something about a good negotiation, whatever.
7:54
Same thing, Corey.
Hey, nice work with XYZ man.
That follow up clearly made the difference on that.
Love how good you are at that.
Moved on.
Like literally.
These are hallway comments.
Like 15 seconds make the statement.
No visual change in my face.
I just don't even skip a heartbeat.
Keep trucking down the hallway and moving on to the next thing.
8:10
I'm going to save everybody every episode.
I literally did this for the next several weeks.
A few times a week I caught said person in the hallway in passing over the phone, on a call for a checkup, whatever.
And I kept planning these seeds of great communication and follow up.
8:27
Love how good you are at that and I shit you not.
At the end of several weeks this person was actually living out that consistency and follow up and follow through like never before.
They had literally bought, at a subconscious level the fact that they were good at it and lo and behold, their performance began to follow.
8:49
Bucking suit, dude.
And I remember how trip.
Came far and away, far and away best yes PM we had.
Had huge following, lots of adjuster direct relationship.
This day still.
Loyal relationships though, still does.
He is leveraged that kind of stuff into lots of ongoing success and opportunity.
9:08
And it was literally like and I remember going back to Amy and talking to her about like this experiment and I was literally tripped out by how effective it was.
And it's funny, it's like I look back in time, like I know you make these statements, It's like it works so well.
We stopped doing it right.
I remember looking back and going, gosh, I really, you know, it was like this short term experiment with a resounding awesome result.
9:30
But I I do reflect and realize I didn't make that a battle standard.
Like it didn't become a normal cadence where I was leveraging that as much as possible to create these changes, life changing changes in my people.
9:46
OK, so here's some of the context, right?
You guys hung in the story as I'm talking with business owners and they are making these really profound changes in their business to create scaled consistency, accountability, balance, all these things that we want so that our businesses are healthy and so that our people experience everything they're capable of experiencing.
10:06
We also get really frustrated because we run into situations where it's like people just aren't making the change with us.
And I get into this position after a while of really kind of boring in on people and being like, look, did we train correctly, have we set clear expectations and standards right?
Blah, blah, blah, OK, you need to make a decision.
10:23
And I realize overtime, I start to sit in this space where I'm doing more, telling people to be quicker to fire, and I'm not going back on that.
But I think we can.
Then, like, that's not motivating.
Like when you're constantly talking to leaders about the fact that, hey, firing sucks, but you got to do it and you got to do it quickly.
10:43
Again, there's truth there, but I think what I even get out of the pocket on is yes.
And are we really doing everything we can to coach up that individual's performance if we see that the want and the desire is there?
10:59
And so it's like, OK, if the want and the desire, meaning they are coachable, when we do give them insights and perspectives, there's a shift in behavior, then let's double down on that.
And so that's where I wanted to go is I want to talk about some of those things that we can do with our people to include lanting seeds like that in a real proactive way that actually has a profound impact on their performance and their experience.
11:24
And here's why I underestimate or I get pulled out of the perspective often of the fact that our people are often just acting out of a lack of self-confidence, right.
And that shows up in so many different places.
11:40
But and we talk a lot about how we made mistakes.
And because we've not had a lack of clarity in our businesses around certain roles, responsibilities and outcomes, but it created friction for accountability.
It makes it difficult, right.
We try to teach elements to overcome that now.
11:55
But I think what we don't do a lot of is kind of talking about the human experience and the human experiment and what kind of opportunities we have to really change people's lives because we change their own personal perspective of themselves.
So anyways, that's what I want to dig into a little bit.
12:12
Today.
But you know, the funny association that I make to that story is, you know, if you're on Facebook and Instagram and you're kind of into personal development and stuff, you end up starting to see in your threads a fair amount of what maybe I historically would have just dismissed this kind of woo woo bullshit, right.
12:29
Things like manifesting and yes, you know, but one.
And I'm not sure I know what to make of some of that stuff all the time.
But I think one of the things that I have really latched on to in recent years is the power of our thoughts.
Yeah.
And to me that's no longer woo woo.
12:44
It's I recognize it within myself that I can get caught in thought loops that are counterproductive to me, right?
And that when I focus on the right thoughts and I nurture the right thoughts in myself, that it has a profound impact on my behavior like what I'd subsequently do.
13:00
Yes, right.
And I think both of us have experienced that.
And the opposite is true, we can change action 1st and then some of that.
In our feelings and thoughts and emotions will follow and for sure yeah absolutely.
And so just that the power of our thoughts as humans.
And then also the other thing too is I've noticed as applied more attention to that, that just the nonsense nature of our thoughts sometimes and how just the randomness of the things we can get caught up in that I didn't necessarily generate, the situation didn't necessarily generate, but our minds are just chaotic.
13:31
Yeah, right.
And there's this process, I think of learning how to manage our thoughts more successfully, more consistently to like when I have a negative thought about myself or other people, right.
That you can actually like the Bible talks about this, right.
Taking our thoughts captive, right.
And I think that might very well have been what they were referring to, right.
13:48
What I don't remember who said that taking of those whatever somebody out there who's a theologian, right, to send us a message.
So that's what comes to mind for me is that we as leaders have an opportunity to sort of help or proactively manage our people's thoughts about themselves, right.
14:04
And So what I what I heard in your story and it's really fun because obviously both of us know that person.
I think that the choice that you made and what our executive coach or energy towards is hunt or the positive things that they're doing in this area.
Find even if it's one out of 10 right now, if it's one out of ten of his jobs and his file, find it and focus on that.
14:25
Focus on the behavior that you do want.
And this, this is in some parenting books too.
Like rather than harping on all the negative behaviors and the negative ways your kid is showing up, focus relentlessly on times that they're doing things right.
Right.
14:41
And that's just in some ways it's basic psychology, but boy it's it's just so easy to forget about that and get hyper focused on the non compliance.
Totally agree.
I'm even thinking about some of the clients and some of the staff that we're working with right now where you know, there's points of frustration.
14:56
It's like God, you know, we've been talking about this thing over and over and over again and it's making me sort of take an inventory of that.
Like, where could I apply this today and shift my dialogue with that person to hyper focus instead on where I see them succeeding and complying with these principles or with these behaviors that we're working on with them and potentially shift the momentum?
15:20
Yeah, yeah, you know.
Yeah, yeah.
I think there's a great deal of opportunity.
I mean, I was just kind of thinking about, like in my own personal journey, these shifts that I have, because I started telling myself a different story.
I remember for years, man, that I had this message in my mind that I would repeat audibly or tell people or I and I don't know why we do this.
15:41
But I literally would say to myself that I'm not strategic by nature.
Like I don't.
I'm not very good at being a strategic thinker, you know, and developing and or organizing strategy and those kinds of things that went on for years.
And I remember somebody in my sphere, just kind of impassive, was like, they actually said the opposite.
16:00
And I I remember, like, how it sounded so weird, like it was so obviously different when I heard that message because it was in such contrast to this thing that I've been telling myself for so long, it kind of stopped me in my tracks.
Like, I could imagine this individual whose story I told, I wonder if the first time I said that to them, even though I didn't give it any space or air to, like, be weird.
16:25
I know they heard me really well because if it was anything like my personal experience, when this person said to me something in stark contrast of what I had been telling myself, it was like kind of stopped me in my tracks.
I remember it, remember recognized.
Anyways, Long story short, that was a doorway that began opening up.
16:42
The thought process for me is, well, maybe I am actually fairly decent at that.
And then that turned into a I'm very confident in my ability to create strategy.
Like, like that's been a very significant shift.
I think there's players that are far more prolific at it than I am.
But I don't live out that story that I had in my head before, because someone in my sphere, like, told me something that stopped me in my tracks to rethink that.
17:04
You know what I mean?
You know, I think leadership is so much more of an art.
Yeah, you know, it is a practice.
It's a real trade craft.
It's a real trade craft.
And, you know, I think of one of my early mentors who's ironically my daughter's employer now to my daughter recently got into insurance and in the process of getting licensed as an insurance person.
17:23
And you know, she's still young, She's 18.
You know, she's so green.
Yeah, she's so green.
But she's really blossoming under this guy's leadership.
His name, Jim Coleman, he's he's a very, very successful State Farm agent in Oregon.
And a good dude.
Yeah, and a really good, really good dude.
17:39
And I benefited from him in so many ways because he is one of these relentlessly affirming leaders where and I think he would probably articulate that kind of the growing edge for him is learning how to have like being committed to having corrective conversations as needed.
17:57
Because definitely his talent and his gifting is in this affirmation space.
But now, and as I look at his legacy and the businesses he's built, he is just leaned into that affirming leadership style where he is constantly calling out the genius and the talent and the skill that he sees in people, and he overwhelms them with that affirmation and they want to live up to it.
18:23
Yeah, yes.
They want to live up to it.
And I see the genius in it.
Yeah.
And I have also been around other leaders like that, that it's just they have nurtured that part of themselves and they're just very consistent in handing out those affirmations.
Now The thing is, they're never false.
18:39
Yes.
Great.
And I think that's the important part of the story.
Yeah, there it is.
You never bullshitted.
That's right.
That PM.
That's right.
Like, so it to be real.
But I think it's a discipline of, and I know that at times, Jim, we get frustrated because I over time I became a confidant of his and then eventually we were colleagues.
18:56
We were both State Farm agents and I had a lot of conversations with him about this.
I continue as a good friend today and I know that he gets frustrated with people's performance.
Yeah.
But I also know that he's just so committed to this strategy of developing people where he finds the thing that he likes and appreciates and values in them and he hammers on it.
19:17
I had a story, but I can't tell the story.
But but there's so many examples I could rattle off.
Yeah, being a close friend to Jim, I've watched his business grow.
I know about the various people he's hired and this is a recurring theme throughout his 25 year career.
And he's one of the top agents in the country, not just in Oregon.
19:35
And I really externally I would credit his success potentially just to that because I can imagine when you have a leader that is that focused on leading that way with his people, well he's also a really successful sales guy.
Like again he's one of the biggest life insurance and financial services agents in the company.
19:53
And I think that rubs off on how he engages in interaction cells with his clients.
You know is he's so relentlessly focused on what is working and what they are bringing to the table and what they have versus the have nots, the frustration points and he's like people want.
20:11
They want to live up to it.
I felt that.
You know, it's funny because I don't know if this is funny, but it's the counter, right?
Like because inevitably people are listening to this and and it's the goal is never to say something or portray something in a way that people swing a pendulum all the way out to that side or the opposite side.
20:28
And I was you know kind of like kind of a balancing story is I've also been in scenarios and I think this is what's so key about what you said is that it has to be real.
We have to be saying things that are real, even if it's a micro meaning we're or yeah, micro.
Like we look at this moment and we say in that moment, was this thing true?
20:46
Yes.
So say it.
But you can't make statements that aren't true, right?
Example, we had a situation with a team member long, long, long time ago, many years ago, where we were having significant performance issues and this was somebody that was paid very high commissions and long and short of it.
21:02
We ended up letting this individual go.
But I remember and this was a core mistake that I made and I remember in the moment dude I actually my face probably just went flush when I thought whatever my face just went stark white.
I'm sure when I noticed what I had done.
21:18
So this is like what you wouldn't do with this is I'm trying to encourage this individual.
I'm pulling into the tool bag.
I'm trying to figure out what I can do.
By the way this was long before Amy.
I'm trying to figure out what to do with this individual to promote some change in the outcomes.
21:33
And I remember in a write up I did on this individual performance evaluation, I remember I ended my evaluation with kind of this overly optimistic review of his performance as a whole and kind of just making these blanket statements of XYZ.
21:50
And I did it because my hope is that by being nice and encouraging it was going to shift his behavior.
I'm telling this because I want to create some contrast here in terms of how we do it versus what I did.
And so ultimately, guess what happens when we're in a HR situation in front of attorneys and we're talking about poor performance is the reason that we had to make the decision that we made.
22:13
And here's this documentation of this glowing abusive.
Feud.
He pulls this thing up in front of me and he's asking me these pointed questions to draw my attention to phrases that I put in writing in this employees review that basically say that why we're there doesn't match with what I was saying about his performance and writing.
22:34
Oh man, humbling, scary and really just messy all round, right?
Okay.
So I say that because what I don't want you to hear us say is just say what you want, tell this person what you want to see, because you see it in them in quotes and hope that they turn the corner.
22:52
That's not what we're saying.
So it's.
It has to be.
It has to be true.
It has to be.
True, right.
And even like my mental experiment of planting those seeds, that's not necessarily something we turn into a process.
So I kind of want to shift here and just kind of move into, OK, all right.
23:07
So if we have an opportunity to potentially reframe the expectations our people have on themselves, how do we do that in a systematic way or in a way that's proactive, that's professional, that's responsible so that we can partner with our people and give them the highest opportunity to be coached up before we have to coach them out but not make the mistakes that put us in a situation where we're lying to that person and or compromising ourselves from a liability perspective.
23:36
Well, I think one of the first places we start, we've talked about this before and again this is stuff I've done better in practice later than I necessarily always did as an operator is one-on-one like this is our opportunity to be talking to our people in a real intention specific way like here are your hopes and dreams.
23:54
Here's the opportunities you're trying to seek in our organization.
How can I tie your performance expectations, deliverables?
To help you get back to that.
Right.
And that's that opportunity in that one-on-one, it's not disciplinary necessarily.
It's not even here's what you have to do to fix everything.
It's just like hey.
24:09
What do you want?
Yeah.
What do you want to see?
What do you want to experience?
And then once that's established as a baseline, pointing back to that and just saying, hey, you said this, you said this was an outcome.
Here are these three or four things that you do really well that are helping you get there.
And here's two things you're really struggling with.
24:27
And these are friction points that are absolutely slowing you down from experiencing what you want to experience.
What do you want to do with that and really putting that ownership back in their hands.
But the point is, I guess of all this is, is that in situations like that, we're doing two things that I believe are really important.
24:43
One is we are showing them and telling them where they're crushing it because it's important for them to have confidence and motivation by these wins that are being recognized by us as leaders.
And then I think the second thing that we're doing is we're saying, hey, you're saying this, this is your speech, your talk about what you want, but the behaviors aren't there.
25:03
And then I think that opens up the conversation of what do you think standing in your way of that.
And then I think we have this really cool opportunity to ask the follow up question of are there any mental barriers like what kind of conversations are you having with yourself around this item?
25:20
Right.
Here's another example.
We have somebody, a client in our roster right now who has a phenomenal key leader on their team, like very experienced, very capable, likes the challenge, 9 out of 10 pieces of conversation or topic.
They're super coachable in.
25:36
But they have an Achilles heel of they cannot show up on time.
They struggle to get into the shop prior to their team.
That's a problem.
Like, that's a major issue that that is mirroring behavior that erodes trust and accountability down through the ranks.
Period.
I don't care how you wrap it.
25:51
That guy has.
So much capacity, capability and opportunity in front of him.
But you know, and I'm not saying this is the case with him, if it was in my organization, I'm only gonna go along for so long before I'm like, dude, the fact that you can't show up before your team mirrors some very critically negative behavior that I can't allow culturally.
26:11
Like you're gonna force me into a corner where I have to make a different decision about your position or your place in this company.
But if they can't change it, right, Like, I don't anyways.
My point is, is they our people can do many, many great things and still have the one thing like it's too critical for us to ignore.
26:26
There has to be engagement and advancement here.
But if I can call that out in a one-on-one and point towards, look, this is a thing that is absolutely standing in your way of experiencing the success that you want here.
What would you like to do about that?
I don't own it.
It's not my job to make you change.
26:42
It's my job to hold you accountable if you don't change.
So I'm asking the question what do you want to do about that, right.
And then I think we can again, it's like I know we started out the story with kind of this mind game.
These are those proactive ways though, that we engage our people, get them to own that experience.
26:59
And ultimately, at the end of the day, they're either going to do something to change or modify that behavior or they don't, which you can't be responsible for.
But the whole point is for us to show up, create a space that's safe for us to hear from them what they want, and then tied directly into where they're having strengths or weaknesses and how that's impacting what they want, right, instead of trying to approach it all from a performance anyways.
27:21
I think that's a great starting place for most of us to have a really profound impact on our team and in terms of having the opportunity to coach up before we have to make that decision to coach him out liftify.com.
Forward.
Slash.
Blood light.
You've heard Brandon and I talk a bunch of times about the importance of Google reviews.
27:39
Maybe even heard our episode with Zach Garrett, the CEO and founder.
Recency, consistency.
Two of the most important things when it comes to maximizing the benefit from your Google reviews.
Why not use an outside partner?
Liftify is targeting 20 to 25% conversion, right?
27:55
So if you do 1000 jobs a year, you ought to be adding right now 200 to 250 reviews a year, every single year.
If you're not doing that, you owe it to yourself to get a free demo from liftify.com.
See their system, see how it works, see how affordable it is.
I promise you you'll thank us liftify.com forward slash.
28:15
Blood Light.
You know, we spend a lot of money and a lot of attention trying to get that first call.
And one of the things that we do once it happens is sometimes we leave it to chance, right?
Who picks up the phone?
How do they respond?
How do they walk that client into a relationship with us?
Well, one of the benefits of partnering with a team like answerforce.com is we can systemize that.
28:35
We can make it more consistent.
We can also have backup for when our teams need that help, right?
Somebody goes on vacation, somebody's out sick, you know, we get a storm surge, we get cat event.
All sorts of things can have an impact on how we receive that client, but the most important thing is they need to know that they've chosen the right team.
28:54
And so answer force.com can support you, be a bolt on partner to help you consistently produce an awesome onboarding experience with that first call with your client.
So answer force.com/bloodlife.
That's great.
CNR magazine.
29:10
We're friends with all the folks at CNR, Michelle and her team, they do a great job of keeping their ear to the ground and reporting all the important information from our industry, right.
You want to stay up on all the M&A activity and what the latest best practices are for selling your company successfully, right?
She's got that great articles about all the four quadrants of our business, right?
29:29
CNR is constantly pushing out great material and leveraging great writers and subject matter experts in our industry.
It is the water cooler of our industry.
So if you're not subscribed, go to cnrmagazine.com.
Follow them on LinkedIn, follow Michelle on LinkedIn.
29:46
Trust us, if you're trying to stay on top of everything happened in the industry, your best destination is cnrmagazine.com.
You guys, many of you have already heard about Actionable Insights and the training and the technical expertise that they bring to the industry.
But how many of you are already leveraging the Actionable Insights profile for Xactimate?
30:06
That's the game changer.
It's essentially an AI tool that's walking alongside of you as you write your estimate, bringing things to your attention that should be added that could be considered all of them.
Items that increase our profitability, increase the effectiveness and the consistency of that scope.
30:24
And it can do anything from helping a new team member assimilate as some estimating best practices.
And it also helps the grizzled vets add back that few percent that we've just forgot over time.
So Actionable insights.
Get insights.org forward slash floodlight and take a look at what the Actionable Insights exactimate profile could be doing for you and your team.
30:49
You know what?
Other thing kind of going back to this mindset and the mental jiu jitsu that you did with the PM that we were talking about.
I think the other side of it too is retraining ourselves as leaders to how we are thinking about our people, right?
It's like developing that discipline.
Here's a pattern that I've noticed in my career is I have such a high relational anchor that I get really excited about people.
31:11
And I think in a lot of ways I have a very high expectation of them in my mind and I just get super stoked about what they're going to do and who they're going to be.
And you know, the positive impact they're going to have on our team.
And then when there's any deviation from that, like, I get really disappointed.
31:26
And because of my deep kind of relational anchor, I don't lie very well.
Yeah.
Not, not to suggest lying as a good leadership skill, but you know what I mean?
Like, it's very obvious to everybody that I'm disappointed.
Yeah, and really that's just a mental game.
It's just it's my thoughts take over my these disappointed thoughts about, oh they just they let me down or they let the team down on this critical thing or they fail to follow up or they they missed that sale because they weren't diligent and in their follow up or whatever it was, I can allow that disappointment to take over.
32:00
And then you know we've talked about this before.
This is a fairly common pattern amongst leaders is you start to distance yourself in that person because you don't you're not sure exactly how to deal with that disappointment.
Do I give them more time to kind of prove themselves?
Yeah.
You know maybe I'm just being too critical and we just kind of sit on it, you know.
32:17
But in my mind space, the thought pattern is still it keeps going and then that disappointment.
Then if they have another, they let me down or let the team down in another way, then I stack another disappointment on top of that.
And then finally gets to the point where I associate it with a performance failure, performance issue, so to speak.
32:34
And then I bring it up to them.
They can already sense that my energy is against them, that I've judged them as you might not be a good fit for the team and we.
It's just like this negative cycle that takes hold.
Builds momentum.
It's really hard to rescue myself from that thought pattern as a leader and to get out of it, because it's just, I just allow that momentum to build.
32:56
And I think part of what you're talking about is reorienting myself and saying OK, is part of me disappointed with some of their early results or some of the decisions they've been making?
Yes.
But can I find and some examples of them adding value to the team and executing well in some of these areas that I can focus on that and draw more and more and more out of that out of them 100%.
33:17
And I just think to me as you're talking is it reminds me that is a critical leadership skill or habit is to 1st to 1st anchor ourselves in.
OK, Can I see behaviors, can I see aptitude and potential and can I drill on that and draw more and more of that out.
33:35
And this goes back to my example with Jim Coleman, the State Farm agent guy like I have seen over and over and over again, when leaders do that, when they begin there and they hang in that pocket, it doesn't mean that you don't deal with non compliance, right.
But I think it does mean you more heavily invest in drawing out the positive performance, the aptitude, the skill base, focus on that.
33:57
It's like when I do that in my marriage pays dividends.
Yep.
When I do that with my kids, I've seen that pay dividends.
I've seen it create positive outcome and I've seen it drive positive relational connection, all of that stuff.
And yet for some reason, it's this disconnect I think a lot of us have as leaders that we need to hold the line and we need to end.
34:14
And that's all true.
But the question is how do you hold the line?
Yeah, yeah.
It's like there's two different pathways.
I can hold the line by being a hard ass and using my anger energy and and just be really direct and all the stuff that we associate with being a really disciplined leader.
But there's this other methodology that accomplishes the same exact thing with less toxic residue.
34:33
Yeah.
And I feel like that's what what you're conveying in that story.
The other thing that comes to mind for me, one of our core values at Floodlight is keeping short accounts and, you know, sort of defining that as routinely clearing the table.
Right.
Not allowing, like, you know, the biblical principle of the second time.
34:49
I'm talking about the Bible today.
Interesting.
This idea of keeping short accounts is not allowing offences to stack up by not going to sleep on your anger.
Right.
I think it's the biblical proverb, yeah.
And I was talking with a sales manager this morning that we work with and she just mentioned out loud.
35:05
She's like, I'm just a struggle with conflict, struggle with having these corrective conversations.
And one of my part of my advice to her because she's actually newer and so she's building a team and she's just getting started with her team.
And I said, you know what?
I totally get it.
That's definitely more my default behavior and my bias is to be conflict avoidant.
35:21
And I said one of the things that I found that works better for me is making it a point.
Like creating a discipline to clear the table every day with my people.
And of course I don't always hold this discipline, but it's something that I've been trying to redirect myself to over and over again throughout my career and make it more of a routine.
35:38
Discipline.
Is is to deal with the small things rather than having to deal with the stack of things.
And I spent the 1st, at least half or 2/3 of my career allowing small things to build into a pile of small things.
And again, in the process, my disappointment stacks up.
35:55
And all of a sudden, the energy, the interactions that they're having with me are very negative.
Yeah.
You know, they're second guessing themselves.
They can tell that I don't quote like them.
They can feel it.
And it's because I have this pattern of thoughts inside me of they did this, they didn't do this, they did this, they didn't do this.
36:14
And yet, no.
One thing.
Yeah.
Feels like it's important enough to have a corrective conversation, but then ultimately a pile of things.
I have to do something or I'm going to fire them.
Yeah, you know.
Oh yeah, for sure.
And so, so I think somewhere in this conversation too, when we talk about coaching up versus coaching out or this whole idea of fire fast.
36:32
I think a lot of times we end up in a position where we have to let somebody go because we've sat on a pile of micro disappointments in people to the point where it's completely changed our orientation as a leader toward that person and it's made it impossible for them to come back from.
36:50
Yeah, You know, it's, it's interesting because I think all of this kind of rolls into kind of a couple double core thoughts.
One is I think this is where the opportunity costs show up in regard to leadership bandwidth and how we've structured our org structure and our teams and what we're asking them to do.
37:06
Here's what I mean by that.
It's very common right for us to have department heads, team leads, those kinds of things.
And we want them to participate in the production cycle because it's difficult for us to just have spend that's not generating any kind of revenue, totally understand that it's good stewardship, standard business management.
37:24
And though I think what we do is we push that too far and we end up with leaders that hold leadership job titles, but they're really just an extension of our production staff.
They really are mired still in producing work.
And the challenge with that then is that we don't have a leader that's proactively thinking about their people and respecting and or leveraging the honor that they have to change the perspective or world view that that individual on their team has about themselves and their place within our organization.
37:57
And I think what we can't measure very effectively or at minimum we just don't spend a lot of time trying to figure out how to measure is those opportunity costs that come from a leader instead of being a leader, being a production member.
And so instead of doing those things, how much are we losing from our top line?
38:14
How much gross profit margin leak do we have?
What is the impact, measurable financial impact of churn, turnover with our staff or extending UH onboarding time frame so long that what could have been trained out in three months now we're six months in, we're nine months in and their performance is 70% of what it could be.
38:34
What are those costs to our organization and would we have made-up for it in spades by just ensuring that that key leader or department head is spending 75% of their time focused on proactive leadership and management versus production?
38:50
And I bring that up because I think that we often want these kinds of things in our business, meaning we wanna have the kind of leaders in our organizations to include ourselves where we understand the opportunity that we have for that level of influence in our people's lives.
39:05
Because for many of them, they don't have it outside of our organization.
Like if a lot of our younger team members specifically, many of them aren't coming from homes where there's a lot of consistency and healthy patterns and where they've been built up or encouraged or spoken into.
39:21
I'm not saying none of them do.
I'm just saying I bet you it's very common that you have team members that have not gotten much of that in their personal sphere.
And so they come to an organization like ours and they're kind of ultimately living up to what their spheres told them they were capable of.
And we have this immense honor to reshape that and allow them to experience something totally different.
39:41
But we can't be afraid of conflict.
We can't be afraid of addressing or speaking to those things.
And we certainly can't be afraid to have conversations where we're asking them to take a different look or a perspective on their own individual performance and contribution.
So anyways, I'm not even sure where to go in terms of a nuts and bolts apiece with that, but I just think it's a mind frame that it's really important and it's a difficult one to stay in.
40:05
But if we want that, if we want to experience that with our organizations, there's got to be a line that we draw where we commit to that and we give room to our leaders to have that space.
I mean, we, we were talking to a team.
They have 40 direct reports.
I was so crazy.
Like, I remember when I was sitting in on that meeting.
40:23
Yeah.
And I just thought, how in the world can you possibly even function as even a manager, let alone?
A leader?
Yeah, you might be able to check some boxes.
You certainly could review some dash boards and some right and some data points, but I think it would be very difficult, nearly impossible.
40:42
Well, difficult to do anything consistently exactly in that kind of environment, yeah.
And that's what it requires, right?
We can't do this stuff once a year.
We can't do it every once a while.
When we think about it, these are behaviors or commitments that have to be consistent in order for them to produce a result.
Yeah, I don't know.
40:57
I think this is an interesting topic guys and I think it's something that we all can continue to investigate and think about and chew on as an industry.
Because I think at the end of the day if we're going to start doing a better job of attracting fresh blood into this industry which the industry warrants.
It is that we're just we have to continue to understand our role as human steward as people influencers and our organizations.
41:21
And you know, I think too, like we've talked to so many teams that wrestle with burnout and where the owners are just kind of tired.
And I know so much of it is they just spend the vast majority of their time sucked into these things that are so unrewarding, they just kind of grind gears on you all the time.
41:37
They're like borderline depressing.
Gosh, if you could spend more of your time coaching and speaking into people and watching fruit of that engagement and that energy commitment, well, then our businesses get a lot more rewarding.
Yeah, right.
And anyways.
Let's say so I have.
This is a little bit tangential or maybe adjacent to what we've been talking about, but I had a conversation at the TKI conference.
41:58
Oh, yeah, I got into a chat with a guy in a real small market, 25 years, 5:00-ish million dollar business, 20/22/25 employees, something like that.
But the classic, you know, like there's probably a lot of people listening to this, That's your best.
Yeah, that's your business.
Yeah.
And we were just talking shop and I said, you know, how's recruiting?
42:16
How do you guys do for labor?
I mean, you have a smaller team, but inevitably you guys have turnover and stuff.
You said really turnovers really gone away in the last few years, said Okay.
He's like, yeah, we have a really stable team.
It's been really great.
So we've kind of tapped in our little market.
I feel like we've kind of tapped down our growth.
42:31
We've got to probably got to open up another market if we're going to really grow.
I was like Okay and I said, but how have you stabilized your team like that?
Especially because often times in those smaller markets it's really hard to maintain a team because you're inevitably you're going to lose people periodically and it's really hard sometimes to replace those folks, especially the last several years, he said.
42:48
You know what, I did something kind of wild here recently.
We were struggling with drama within the team.
We had at a number of people turn over a few years ago and it just got me thinking, this is such a crappy business in the sense of like most of the work we do is really hard.
43:05
Even the stuff like build back and construction, which is everybody loves to build things.
You people that are in the trades, that's one of the things they enjoy is building something and creating something new.
And I said, and he said, but you know, in our business, even when we're doing construction, the timelines are so compressed, it's like needs to be done yesterday.
You know, he's like it is a hard business.
43:21
Yeah, there's a lot of pressure and then there's all the ugly stuff that we deal with too, he said The work is hard.
You have to like the people you work with.
What else do you have in this business?
Yeah, but your team?
Yeah, interesting, he said.
So I made a critical choice, he said.
43:37
I made a decision that from now on, whenever I hire somebody, I'm going to give him a 30 day probationary period.
And at the end of that probationary period, did I ever tell you this?
No.
Yeah, he said.
At the end of that 30 days, I survey every single one of my employees and they either give a thumbs up or thumbs down to that employee.
43:55
And if I don't have a consensus across the team, we don't hire that person.
Interesting.
I said, wow, how did that work?
He said.
Well, it's been hard at times because you know, when we are hiring somebody, most of the time we need.
Them.
You need them now, Yeah, I think.
Everybody's listening to this is like, Oh my gosh.
44:10
But he stuck to his guns in three years later, he said.
We've become whenever we have somebody retire or they take a better opportunity, they leave the industry or something like that.
He's like, we are known in the community as the place to go because everybody at my business right now likes each other.
44:26
Wow.
Like everybody.
We have no drama.
People like coming to work.
They feel supported.
When people talk about it's like family, it kind of is because everybody has had a role in who's on our team for the last three years.
Super interesting.
44:42
They understand the commitment we've made as a business and how important that is for us to like and care about each other and respect each other.
That's something else.
And nobody wants to violate that.
Yeah.
And they have a say.
So in who makes it on the team.
He's like, it's been profound, man.
44:58
And I just thought, OK And I kind of made a comment to him, I'm like, well, obviously that wouldn't work with, you know, if you had a team of 100 people.
But then as I've been over that ever since, well, can you do this as a team grows?
Can you stick to that as a team grows in our industry, I think it certainly has trade-offs.
Yeah, there's certainly, it can certainly create hardships.
45:15
There's cost to having a policy like that.
Yeah.
But what are the benefits now?
Now, of course, right?
You get to a big company, you get multiple locations.
Not everybody can vote on every employee because they don't have interaction with all of them.
But I think you can within your team, but.
What about their department?
Yeah, for sure.
Department locations, right?
45:31
Because it you could have a large entity, but each one of their operational locations may not be that big.
Now part of the imperative too, and he talked about this, is it requires that people go out of their way to welcome that person, to instigate interactions with that person, right.
Yeah.
45:47
And I just thought, man, whether or not that is a scalable strategy, I just thought, gosh, that takes a lot of leadership, discipline and courage.
Really.
Does you enact a policy like that, especially in today's environment where talent is so scarce, labor is so scarce, But boy, if you've got the courage and discipline to hang in that pocket, what a beautiful thing.
46:08
You know what's interesting about that is that I feel like these are legacy plays.
Like these are the kind of plays that are very difficult to do in the moment or certain.
But if you look at the long term ramifications, the impact on the organization and the fact that many of these things that are hard to stick to your guns on, once you do it for a long enough period of time, the environment begins to protect itself from even any deviation from it.
46:33
Yeah.
So, like what you're referring to essentially is a peer accountability.
Yeah.
And we've seen this.
We've seen it in our own organizations.
We've seen it in some of our clients organizations, is when you reach a certain level with some of your core kind of foundational elements of your business, where the peers begin to regulate the success of that within the organization.
46:54
Owners begin to experience something very different in terms of their workload, their vision for their business, where they're spending their time.
But I think a lot of it has to start with this idea of what do you want to do with your employees, Like what kind of relationship are you anticipating they have with you and that they have with your business.
47:14
Because I think that guy can't make that decision.
He can't lead that way and he can't commit to that if he doesn't reshape what he wants to experience from his business.
Like if we go back to the beginning of our conversation and we talk about how much so much of this is a matter of resetting our frame by the way that we talk about it.
47:33
I think his owners and leaders we often and I'm no different.
I've been in this like full transparency.
I've had multiple weeks this quarter that that I've felt like this and that is and I am kind of burnt out, like things aren't as sexy as I want it to be in all aspects of our business, right.
47:49
Like it's just totally normal.
But there's got to be this moment where you reshape your expectation and you start talking about it differently.
So instead of settling in as a business owner of employees, like the hardest thing about being a business owner is my people.
48:05
Like I've said that we tongue in cheek it, we make jokes about it.
I think it's like a general consensus that the most most business owners and leaders would say it's like, I love it, people make it the hard thing.
Right.
It's the number one reason why people sell their business.
It is get out of a business.
They just get burnt, right?
48:20
Tired of the people part?
Yeah, this is, I think this is just our opportunity.
Again, this is as much a reminder for us, me, as it is for anybody listening, right?
I think though everything that we're talking about, it's critical path for business owners today that you still have another 2025 year run in front of them is the the generation that's coming up is unwilling to trade today for tomorrow.
48:44
Like we watched our parents and grandparents, we've talked about this before like generations before like they're happy to sort of nose to the grindstone for their 25 years.
Yeah, collect their pension, retire on their 401K match that's been happening all along with their company they were with for 25 years.
Like, that is not the generation right now that's coming up.
49:01
What they are unwilling to trade their enjoyment of now or a possible enjoyment in retirement.
Yeah, so the really smart leaders that we see, like I was having another tabletop conversation at the event up in Canada with another owner.
He's in his 30s.
49:17
He and his brother took over dad's business.
Oh yeah, they just opened a second operation center.
What did they do?
Well, first of all, all three of these guys are like triathletes, You know, they workout every day and they're modeling this holistic life style for their people.
49:32
Like this particular guy I was talking to, he's like, you know, I don't want to potentially sacrifice the close relationships I have with my kids and my wife to only try to sort of recover them later on in life in retirement, he said.
I've just, he's like, I missed out on some of that connection and fathering from my dad because he was so eager to build the business and create a better life for us.
49:53
But in the process, yeah, we missed out on the relationship with him in those early years.
And he's like, so I'm not going to do that.
And so he and his brothers have literally set up a schedule where he works until 4:00 every day in the from 4:00 to 7:00, he does sports dinner together with the family.
And then he picks up and he puts in another hour, hour and a half, you know, most nights to check his e-mail, check his dashboards, do his thing from 7:00 to 8:30 or so after the kids are cutting off in bed or doing their own thing intentionally to enjoy the now while he's building tomorrow.
50:23
And so when they built this new operation center, he and his brothers, they're big into fitness.
And so as you can might imagine, a culture of that has started to form around them.
Other employees see that.
Right.
And some are motivated.
And so they built this 20 by 30 workout area, built a whole gym space in a section of this shop for their employees to be able to utilize.
50:45
And it allows them to work out at their business, which again, perpetuates this modeling of, hey, we're not asking you to sacrifice your life for us.
Like, you know, all of us need to.
Like we're all just have one life.
And this is part of what we value in our life and we want to offer it and make this available to all of you.
51:02
And I just thought, man, it's a great example.
And not everybody has to put a gym or a yoga studio in their shop.
Yeah.
But I think it points to the fact that the generation that's coming up that are going to be our leaders are not going to trade their life now or some benefit or wealth or riches down the road.
51:19
Yeah.
Yeah.
And so how do we accommodate that in our business?
How do we, how do we create an environment and an opportunity where we can honor them as people that have families just like us, that want to have fun, want to enjoy their life, want to stay healthy?
And I think this this is all stuff that we have to be thinking about as leaders as we make this transition.
51:38
Well, and I think quite honestly, like for us, if you're the owner or leader of this organization that's listening, there's this opportunity for us to catch a glimpse of what that means.
Like, why is that generation choosing to not sacrifice?
And what's in that for me as a key leader?
51:54
Yeah, because I think what all of this is summarized by, it's this boils down to the stories that we tell ourselves, the things that we say to ourselves and continue to affirm.
And I think what we have is an opportunity to stop for a moment and say, OK, this is my current experience.
52:13
Do I like that?
Do I like this outcome?
Is it everything that I thought it would be?
And if the answer is no, begin visioneering.
We've talked about that before.
What a better experience looks like and begin talking about then what it's going to take to get there.
And using that as the new frame, the new story.
52:31
I think the example that you're talking about that you shared both with that previous employer that made that decision, right, for that pure accountability element.
And then the fact that our current generations don't want to give that up.
I think the other thing they're telling us is that you don't have to.
Yeah, like we are seeing young entrepreneurs be a highly, highly successful and they're not working 100 hours a week.
52:52
They're not blowing up their families and their personal relationships to do so.
What they're doing is leaning hard into developing systems processes, building people, hiring correctly, setting clear expectations, having a clear vision for what they want to experience in their business, and hiring the type of people that want to align with that story.
53:13
And when you do that, you end up with a balanced business that has a lot of enterprise value that is far easier to run and a whole lot better to experience.
And guess what?
If you decide to show up tomorrow and exit, you're the most valuable company on the board.
Right.
53:28
I think part of what we're talking about, man, is I think we all know in our guts, happy people produce better results.
Yeah, for a period of time you can drive people into the ground and milk every ounce of energy and production out of them and you can generate some results you can.
But happy people, people can go forever.
53:46
Yeah, you can take happy employees and ride off into the sunset with happy people.
So the question is, how can we create a happier work environment where people are not dreading going to work on Mondays?
I think happiness and hard work can go hand in hand.
54:01
I think that's what we're starting to see, right, 1000%, yeah, 1000%.
Listen, if if these podcasts are valuable to you, and we know that there's a lot of you out there, that you're faithful listeners.
You share these podcasts with your employees and stuff like that.
And you have thought about getting some sort of coaching or consulting relationship.
54:18
Your business to help you level up, to expand the capacity of your leadership team to execute more quickly, to support you, to offer guidance as necessary to help model new behaviors, new processes for your team.
One of the best places you can start if you're curious about Floodlight is to go to floodlightgrp.com/audit AUDIT and take our business Opportunity audit.
54:39
It's a comprehensive health assessment that's going to give you a health score at the end.
And what we'll do is we'll offer you a free consultation session to review the results of that.
Identify some of the low hanging fruit that you could potentially take action on immediately to affect your business and to move it in a positive direction.
54:56
Begin levelling up your business in the direction that you want it to go.
And if partnering with us helps accelerate that, great.
It'll be really obvious after that call whether or not that's a partnership you want to pursue, but that's free.
Go to floodlight, GRP forward slash audit and then also share the podcast with your friends, other business owner, colleagues, you know, let's continue spreading the word and that's it.
55:15
We'll see you on the next show.
See you guys.
Thanks for hanging.
All right everybody.
He thanks for joining us for another episode of Head Heart and Boots and.
If you're enjoying the show, so you love this episode, please hit follow Formerly Known to subscribe, write us a review or share this episode with a friend.
55:33
Share it on LinkedIn.
Share it via text, Whatever.
It all helps.
Thanks for listening.