0:07
Welcome Back To The Head heart and Boots podcast.
I'm Chris and I'm Brandon.
Join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses we leave this industry.
Hello.
How are you?
0:23
You know, it's interesting.
I'm feeling better as the day goes by.
So that's good.
That's a positive.
No no.
It's positive thing actually.
Feels good cool.
You were kind of tap.
And into a topic this morning where we going, we had a chat with a colleague.
What?
Week?
0:38
Or two ago?
Yeah.
Potentially a team member.
Candidate.
There's a colleague frell?
Yeah.
That's true.
Colleague and friend.
And, you know, now we're starting to engage in a new conversation, so could potentially become a floodlight team member.
So we'll see.
But as part of this sort of courting process that we've been starting to engage in, they said, I really need to know who you guys are really like I listened to your podcast.
1:01
You know, I've seen some stuff, we've done some things together, but I want to know who you guys really are.
Like how do you treat your wives?
What are you?
Like his dad's you know, what do you care about when you're outside of work?
1:19
Like what do you commit your time to what?
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
And we were both like a little bit caught off guard and I don't know if caught off guard.
Sorry.
Did I just I thought about that question.
Well, why actually after that meeting I tell ya I've never had a potential employee or business partner.
1:34
Whatever ask that question in quite that way, and I really thought a lot about it and after kind of my, I don't know, a little bit of a deer in headlights.
Looks at him.
I'm like, that's a freaking rad question and I'm totally willing to go there.
Let's talk about it.
1:50
Yeah.
So I've been doodling on that.
What am I going to say to this person?
Because we're going to meet with him?
I think soon again.
But then it reminded me back for my speaker lunch days when we used to invite in entrepreneurs and stuff to come, talk to our local community of business people and stuff.
2:06
In one of those guys was the CEO of Zappos.
Listen to me name-dropping, Alfred Lynn anyway, Alfred ladies now with Sequoia Capital partners and whatever, you know, like Zappos sold to Amazon.
But the thing that I remember talking to him about was their hiring process.
2:26
Now mind you, they're all like you know they were a venture-backed startup and so they had the freaking foosball tables and all you know, all the things that like a young.
Yeah.
Yep.
Business does.
But what he said, was really the force multiplier for them is that they were insanely focused when they were hiring, particularly their upper management executive leadership roles that they were looking for an integrated Personality.
2:52
Yeah.
And when he first said that I didn't know what it meant Nobody raised their hand and asked and he said, you know, it's really like we want to hire people that are the same with their wife and kids as they are with their downline employees, as they are with customers as they are with colleagues and Leadership peers.
3:11
Yeah, we don't want people that have a certain way that they treat their downline and then another way that they treat their peers and their upline, like we just want people that are real.
Yeah.
And I think as I say that probably was like, well, yeah duh, but how often do we really prioritize getting to know somebody?
3:35
I'm one of the practices that they did to support.
That was when they were hiring a key leadership role is they would invite the spouse and them out to dinner.
And so they'd get a chance to see what's the body language, what's the, what's the interaction?
3:51
You know between them and just you know to get a more of an organic view of who this person is sure.
Gaia Partners perspective, right?
Somebody that lives and shares life with uh yeah, Italy for totally.
And anyways I just find that really inspirational and I was just been kind of noodling on that ever since of like okay what what does it look like to form these real relationships not just with our employees but with business partners with clients and everything else, how do we prioritize that?
4:20
Because I think there's something special there and I look back at all the co-workers and stuff that I'm still Connected to yeah, team members that you.
And I've worked with at the various businesses, we've been a part of and my old like, State Farm connections and stuff that I have and prior to that and the small business that I used to have, and I think the the relationships that are still intact and really meaningful to me, there was a level of personal connection, I know things about them, I know what their hobbies are.
4:49
Their passions are, and I also kind of have a view of who they are, as a husband, or a wife.
For parents, like, I've glimpsed those things, you know, whether it was just, you know, an all company picnic or something, where they brought their kids and spouse and I got to see that but just how valuable, you know what I mean?
5:07
Yeah.
That personal connection and knowingness.
And so while it felt weird, when this colleague of ours said, I need to know what you guys are really like At first, I was like what he's supposed to mean.
This is who we are.
Yeah.
And it really is.
5:23
But his follow-on question of I Want to know how you treat your wife.
Yeah, I want to know what your marriage is like like wow she has crazy but I get the reason behind that question.
I do too.
Yeah, if anything I think it probably elevated my excitement about continuing to explore what that could look like after that comment.
5:43
But okay.
Well let's think a couple sponsors and then let's get into that because it sounds like we could tell I totally out there that's so funny.
I was just going right into it and how can I not think our sponsors?
They make this all possible.
It's right there.
His friends in the biz.
So you see in our magazine, just this morning, literally I saw an interview that Michelle Blevins did with the founder and CEO one Tom Plumbing.
6:06
No, yeah, they're kind of Making a Splash in the industry.
So, if you haven't even heard about them, you know, there's Plumbing franchise that is like a design to be a bolt onto a Restoration company and do this emergency calls right.
Put shark bites on the supply lines and yada yada and it was interesting.
6:22
I'm like, oh man, we probably need to see what these guys are up to and whatever.
Ever and I texted Michelle.
Mike.
Hey anyway, you can do an introduction.
She's like 4 seconds later.
You bet.
Michelle is just that kind of person like, she Scoops, every big story.
Yeah, she's connected to all of the people that are moving and shaking in our industry and so if you want to be up on kind of the latest, that's right Resto industry but it's not just rs2.
6:45
It's like the broader Cleaning and Restoration industry which is a big big Community.
She knows all the key players.
She's the one.
All the important conversations in our Industries media.
And so, she's fun to work with.
7:01
We like her personally, but the product that she puts out his incredible.
Her team is growing, by the way.
I'm not.
She just hired an assistant editor.
She's got so, she's had been hustling.
She's building a media Empire as well, so if you're not a subscriber, see in our magazine.com, you should be.
7:16
It's free.
Why?
Like, why would you not want to be up on our Industries news and the important things were happening, right?
Pay attention to the podcast.
Pay attention.
Are you go live stuff that she's Doing.
Yeah, it's worth it lift.
If I let five.com guys, you know, we've been talking about them a lot.
7:31
In fact, it was kind of funny.
He, we actually got a text from from Zach not that long ago.
Yeah, it's like, hey man.
I'm doing a demo right now with some folks that said, they kept hearing about us on the show and of course, that means a lot to us, right?
Because that's the value proposition is, is that we hope that when we refer or tell folks to take something seriously, that, that ends up being a win-win, not only for you but for the There's that we have as well.
7:57
Select five.com automated Google review, right?
That's really what it boils down to is it can can I hire a team?
Put them in place and be ensured that these teams are going to be going out in an aggressive consistent way getting Google reviews for me so that I can benefit from the natural SEO activity.
8:16
I can benefit from the fact that Google is waiting that very heavily, right?
That it's a review coming on their platform and it's coming, consistently their new, right?
There's fresh reviews coming on a consistent basis.
That's what these guys are doing.
They're getting rates of participation rates, 20, 25 percent, that's ridiculous.
8:34
All the other tools and resources that we've seen in that besides our own team, the inconsistency that can happen when we're responsible for it ourselves, but these other bolt on, they're not seeing that kind of result.
And a lot of that is their methodology.
It's sort of commitment and they're very driven by analytics and so it's all super transparent.
8:53
So if you're investing the little money that they Ask for in terms of exchange for their service, the benefit to you is exponential and certainly outweighs the expense just check it out.
Like really at the end of the Google reviews for us is the lifeblood of our business.
9:08
People don't care what you say about your own company, because everyone says stuff about their own company, the real value comes from when somebody who is experienced through the service that your team provides firsthand, and they come to the public and say, I vouch for these guys, And they do a great job Priceless, right?
9:29
It's just worth its weight in gold.
And if you're the kind of company that has high volume and you're just doing hundreds and hundreds of claims a year, think about it, just be pounding on those five star reviews, you know, hundred a year 200, a year 300 a year depending on size and volume.
9:45
It's worth it.
You just the benefit from it just keeps going and going so lift if I.com what is it back?
Slash forward slash which windows are four slash forward slash?
Flood light through habits, guys.
Check it out.
See what they do for you and give us feedback.
Yeah.
Shoot us a message on link did right if you if you did lift the fire and you're really excited and happy with the results.
10:05
Let us know.
That's fun.
Oh yeah, we really are careful about the relationship.
There is promote.
Yeah, not a Cent and lift.
If I is one of those Services where we have literally never had a complainer negative review, period.
So check.
Yeah, I mean, let's almost like staying in line with the topic of this chat that you opened us up with like Who are you?
10:26
Right?
We want congruence.
I think is the right term.
I'm looking for, we want alignment.
Yeah.
And you're never going to see our team promoting or partnering with somebody that we believe is out of alignment with what's important to us important to us, in terms of our perspective of our business, how we carry ourselves, how we carry our brand, the clients that we serve, the industry that we're engaged in all of that stuff, has to be in alignment for us to feel good about it for us to be doing what we promised to do in our Chips with our sponsors is the same stuff.
10:57
Like if they are somebody that we're talking about, it's because we believe they're in alignment with the value proposition that we want to bring people and provide the industry or so.
That's good enough about that.
All right.
Okay, so this topic that you you started getting us in my head went somewhere.
11:13
Yeah, right.
My knee-jerk response, when this individual ask this, that was like, I got fired up.
I'm like boom.
Okay, this is the kind of conversations that I want from somebody that we're Looking to potentially bring onto our team.
So we're saying that very Loosely guys, we have engaged in talks with folks.
11:32
And of course, we're exploring what those future opportunities can look, like doesn't mean it's going to go anywhere.
So anyways, I get pumped it, just like I do with my own staff with partners with, you know, when we're building teams and or working with clients and we see their leadership, teams, developing there's these kinds of questions that I'm looking for that.
11:54
Get me.
Excited about the competency and the capacity of the individual.
There's something that it tells me, right?
And so my knee-jerk response to somebody that says hey but what about you guys who are you?
Who are you is fought?
Like you said, Fathers as spouses as parents is, whatever the case may be.
12:15
Basically, what I think to myself is, oh, this person values alignment, they want to be working with a person they know is the same Person, when they're not in the room Integrity, right Integrity.
Yes, exactly.
And so, for me, I get really excited when somebody asks a question like that.
12:34
And that's kind of where I have been.
I am psyched that they were interested in that that gives me a ton of excitement about wanting to do something with them and it actually strips away a lot of the.
Well, let's be honest.
We're building a fledgling brand in a lot of ways like we protect it.
12:51
It's important to us.
It's our baby, and we know that there's risk, And liabilities with that brand being Miss trusted in.
Anyway, right.
So just it got me excited.
I'm like, okay, this is the kind of person that if they care about that, it means they're kind of principles are core.
13:09
Drivers, must be pretty damn close to mine.
They don't need to be the same sure.
We don't need to share all World perspectives or anything like that, but there must be some foundational stuff that were in agreement with and so I just got totally psyched.
A frenzy listeners.
13:27
We're doing some little bit different with our ads.
So you've been a customer here in some ads with our favorite partners, and companies in the industry.
Now, we actually have a product page Partners page on our website.
So, floodlight gr p.com forward slash Partners, want to give you a quick rundown, though, if the people that we're partnering with, and we believe in as really go to resources in the industry.
13:45
The first one is restoration Erp.com, right?
Erps are an important part of our sales process, our customer development process and Why reinvent the wheel?
The restoration Erp platform is awesome.
It can be customized to your business branding, and all that kind of stuff and has all the components to really create a value.
14:04
Add for your commercial client, accelerate job management software.
Everybody needs job management software and we have just found accelerate not only is their team, like just really great to work with.
When they get ideas from customers, they throw it into the product roadmap and they implement it, they're really advocating for the contractor and trying to create a software solution.
14:24
It works for them actionable insights, we recommend actionable insights all the time, right?
All of us is restoration.
Operators are looking for TurnKey resources and training solutions that we can take our team to the next level and AI when it comes to estimating and matter poor and a lot of the other essential tools were using their an awesome resource and they're always coming out with new great stuff.
14:48
Yeah.
Super influential in the industry.
Super Tech University soft skills, development training for your Options for your Frontline Personnel.
Let's face it Frontline.
Personnel are the heartbeat of our company.
They are the ones that connect with our clients and create the customer experience.
15:04
There's no better investment than investing in the ability for those individuals to represent themselves our clients and our brands.
Well, so super Tech University Surety, they essentially are cutting down this life cycle between delivering service and then getting paid stepping in removing the middleman in terms of mortgage companies, That pipeline, making sure that it, there's at least friction as possible, so we can go out, do a great job and then our businesses don't suffer, while we're waiting to get paid, the money is coming, and it's coming quickly.
15:35
And then, the last one guy's is lift up eyes.
Kind of a newer entry to the industry.
They're driving Google reviews.
So there are TurnKey partner that we can literally go out, provide a great customer experience hand that name off to our trusted partner and lift a Phi and have them go chase that Google review, 25 percent conversion rate which is Industrywide.
15:55
People tend to average, 5% of people.
You ask for review, actually, convert lift.
If I bumps at 225, we were such a big believer.
We are a customer and they've been generating all of our floodlight reviews and in a matter of a week and a half for up to, I don't know, cousin 15 reviews and just a short period of time.
16:11
So.
And I think people just underestimate what happens organically with your SEO search activity.
When you're getting these new and active five-star reviews from our clients and we just can't let the pedal up on that because of the effect on our business is long-term big deal.
So check it out.
Check out our partners page do business with them.
16:28
You won't regret it.
We're confident in that floodlight grp.com forward slash Partners.
Thanks guys.
Okay, so all that rambling, dude, who are you that are you going to answer that question for us today?
16:43
Like, what's your plan?
Oh, well shit, where where are we going with this question?
Well yeah, I boy, I don't know.
I mean that's kind of a fun thread to go down I guess I don't even know where to start.
I mean I love I really love chocolate.
17:02
It's a part of my life actually no.
It's a thing.
I am I'm a lot of things, man, and I think that's true of all of us.
Like I, in fact, so many things in my life at times, I feel are sort of oxymorons because I'm like, I'm this and this certain area.
And I also struggle with these other things over here, right?
17:22
And so, I think that's probably true of all of us.
But, you know, I've shared a lot about my relationship with my kids and my family, and the thoughts I have about that stuff, I'm a dad of three kids, and honestly, over Last couple of years, I think I'm 42.
17:39
I've just become hyper conscious of the brevity of Life.
Hmm, that's a big part of me right now like it's just the season.
I do some people call it, a midlife crisis, some people gone by sports cars.
You know, I bought a sauna and I sit in it for like half an hour every night and I think sometimes I listen to music but it's like my time to reflect and say okay.
18:01
Like, who am I being?
And who I want to be?
Yeah, you know.
Who else am I?
You know, one of my favorite things to do is hit night.
My boy, plays guitar, and I like to just go sit and lean up against the wall.
Sit on the floor, in his bedroom.
18:18
Then I just listen to him play.
That's part of who I am.
You know, my wife and I, we just remodeled our house.
We're taking our 60-inch TV out of our front room or living room or moving into our sunroom.
Because we don't want the TV to be the center of our world.
18:33
Yeah, at home.
It's good.
I don't know if it's good yet.
I might find it annoying.
I may want to go back to watch it, that afflicts, whatever we do.
We have crossed the boundaries of work in progress, I don't know, who knows.
But yeah, so that really defines a lot of who I am right now is the stage of life like it 42.
18:50
I'm asking a lot of questions of who am I right now?
Then what do I want to become?
What do I want to be about?
I had a conversation with my son in the car but this actually Isn't the story I was going to tell you but again I'm really trying to live out of this place of not holding things back.
19:08
That doesn't mean I just go off on people but I just when I have those positive or affirmative thoughts toward people it goes back to that idea of leadership and self-deception self-betrayal.
I have this thing.
I know I ought to do or say and when I don't I'm betraying my so sure.
19:24
Right, like this good thing.
I know I ought to do or say to somebody, whatever.
And I'm really trying to live in that.
Yeah, anyways, I'm driving back from the gym.
Um I think it was Monday.
I've been really kind of cracking down on my son is 14 and if he hears this and it's fine we talk about it all the time.
He started playing varsity soccer this last year and I've been really pushing him.
19:42
I've been pushing him to terrain.
I've been pushing him to lean into that sport.
Hey dude if you're going to be a high school athlete, be your best right?
Yeah.
Put in the work that others aren't so that you can perform like others can't on the field, right?
All that stuff just trying to be an encouraging dad but also push him like dude your shit together.
19:59
You're coming to the gym with me as we were driving.
Back.
There's been a fair bit of that at nudging and pushing and I just said, hey man, do you know why I've been kind of pushing on you harder lately?
He's like, yeah, dad, you know you just want me to be the best I can be and I'm like, yeah but there's something bigger that I've been weighing.
20:15
And I've been thinking about, I said I feel like my job is to take the torch that my dad passed me and to give you just a little bit better of a performance.
20:30
Hmm.
That I could be just a little bit better, Dad than my dad was able to be for me.
I've seen the good and I've also seen the stuff that my dad struggled with and whatever and I have an opportunity to perfect that and your job is to perfect what I give you like the world needs, you to be better than me, right?
20:51
And that's why I pushed you.
That's part of this whole circle of life.
Like my dad did the best that I think he could in the time with the information, The Experience he had from his dad and I'm trying to do the same.
With you.
So be your job like you're becoming a man maybe 15 in like six weeks.
What does that mean?
21:06
Was it mean to but you're like he's going through puberty and all this kind of stuff and that's what's driving me man, our family needs you.
Yeah.
Right.
Our families in a better position because of how my dad took care of me.
Let me encourage me and did did what he did and you need to step up to that.
21:25
That's what growing up and becoming a man is, yeah, it was a cool moment because I think he got it.
I think he heard it.
So, So that's that's a lot of me right now.
I wish the interesting about that.
I kind of cut you off but I think this is kind of for me like a bit of a takeaway I guess almost as we're talking about this topic is I think what's interesting about that question?
21:46
Like so think about it from this perspective when someone else asks you that it's because they're trying to verify or validate if that relationship is worth their investment.
Yeah.
Right to a certain extent.
That's what's happening.
Like you're even if we think about an interview, What's happening in that moment is two groups or people or persons are trying to assess if investment in that relationship has value or is an alignment, right?
22:13
Like those say that's kind of what's Happening.
Yeah.
And I think what's interesting about it is that we can have the kinds of experiences that shows us the value in that.
We do it by default.
Right before we expose ourselves or commit to something.
We're asking these questions.
We're trying to identify if it's a good fit.
22:30
It's funny how we don't really do that for ourselves about ourselves when he asked that question, you kind of brought up the topic I just went, I mean, we did you ink not that long ago, right?
Is that out yet?
It will be by today's come down.
Yeah.
So I don't know, maybe we started to approach on that are.
22:47
But anyways, my point is it's like, just kind of clarifying creating a vision for yourself.
Yeah, just like our business, we create mission and vision statements.
You're not living that out all the time and in a lot of cases the way they're designed.
And they're designed to be like if all things happen, the way you want them to, this is the kind of organization, we will be.
23:07
This is The Stance, we will have, this is what we will live out and I think it's important, right?
Almost like going back to the whole positive thing.
What do you for versus what you against?
I think it may be very difficult for anybody to even set the stage for that to know what they're for to really articulate that if they haven't done a good job of identifying who they are not what people say they are not what they feel.
23:29
Like they need to project.
What they done, not what they do, gone not what they do but who are you?
Right.
That's a big driver for me right now man.
Because you and I both know, very, very successful people that are very very unhappy.
23:46
Yeah.
They got all the things, all of it.
Yeah.
They have the public respect and esteem even at times.
Yeah, still unfulfilled still unhappy.
Yeah and I think the thing I'm just very present to as my kids could give a shit about my business.
Yes.
In the sense of they don't care.
24:02
That Dad is a podcaster, a consultant beyond the fact that it pays the bills and it's what Dad does.
Like they don't got a values.
They don't care about my Empire Building.
Yeah, don't yeah.
All they care is about how I make them feel.
My wife once our basic needs are met.
24:20
My wife doesn't care about that stuff and begin to the day.
What is it like to have me as a companion?
Yeah.
Is there a my wife really cares about?
And I think a lot Let's just get so consumed about what we need to give our families and our kids.
Yeah.
The we lose track of the relationship.
24:36
Yeah.
It's interesting to I think, you know again A lot of times our show what we're talking about, it can feel a little bit like it's centered at leadership.
Meaning people with leadership titles or owners or whatever the case may be.
The interesting thing about this and I think we did go here a bit with you ink is I feel like this is a better barometer to identify whether or not You as an individual is headed in the right direction.
25:02
Here's what I mean by that.
You know, we know some people on our team that are just very coachable, like just its natural form, they're very open to new ideas and concepts.
For some reason, they just seem to do a better job of detaching, their ego, or their personal value, to whatever they've done, right?
25:18
And not in a negative way.
Like, I don't care, they're just coachable.
And then there's a lot of us who are in some Journey of becoming more coachable, right?
And then there's those that we clearly identify their In a coachable bone in their body at least today, right?
Now.
In the interesting thing about that is I think that we become more open to coachability when we're asking ourselves questions like that, like who am I?
25:42
Because I think part of the answer that you get when you're not posturing, when you're not just kind of committing to whatever social or economical standard that says, you should be, or your community says, you should be sphere, whatever.
When we're asking ourselves a question like, who am I outside?
26:00
Side of just this task or this job title.
What's important to me?
My, what's my relationship value to my family?
What am I prioritizing?
I think it helps you be more open to hear the things that align with where you want to go.
So if somebody sharing an idea or a perspective or a concept with you, I think you're more open to it if you're assessing it against where am I headed?
26:22
What do I value?
Who am I?
What do I want to be versus?
I don't know.
I guess there's a million different opposites to that but just kind of when you dig in Right?
Because you're subconsciously responding versus this more conscious intentional questioning response, I don't know if that got that, we got a little my I just think I can get really consumed with building Empires.
26:44
Yeah, opportunities business building, all that stuff.
I'm sure a lot of people listening to this, like, you get so consumed with that.
You can lose the forest in the trees.
Yeah, right.
Yeah.
So and I love, by the way, because we're coming up, it gets hard, stop it.
27:00
Love how you definitely navigate it that conversation so you didn't have to share who you are.
This is a bit of a weird one that timing is perfect.
Oh my goodness, that's righteous.
Well now everybody knows a little bit more about me the chocolate bit and Late-night guitar sessions, maybe they encouragement here you know, it's like well what do you do with an episode like this, what's the value in it?
27:22
I think maybe it's just like just ask yourself the question you know and maybe this is something you do in your morning time.
Maybe just something to do.
I don't know.
Whatever you're thinking time is right.
Maybe the toilet, whatever it is that you do.
Just asking that question.
Like who am I?
27:38
Where am I going?
Right?
What do I value?
What's important to me?
Just getting a little bit closer.
To that alignment.
Like at work, we've got some different responsibilities that require some different aspects of our character, for sure.
27:53
But I think it's more that, that commitment to alignment, like, does this follow in my core values.
Does this fall in line with the things I want to prioritize?
You know, we also often look kind of the in two days and look, backwards and say, okay?
What are the kinds of things that I'm going to be concerned about at that moment, the empires and the money.
28:13
Probably not going to carry the same.
Wait then my gut says it won't certainly not if you're alone.
Yeah, that's right.
My dad died alone, whatever he had.
It wasn't people, right?
So that's something to keep in mind.
I think as we evaluate who we are, and what's important.
28:32
So I don't know for what it's worth.
There You Go Gang.
We'll see you next time.
All right, everybody, he thinks for joining us for another episode of head heart and boots.
And if you're joined the show, beloved this episode, please, hit follow only known as subscribe.
28:49
Write us a review or share this episode with a friend, share it on LinkedIn.
Share it, via text, whatever.
It all helps.
Thanks for listening.