0:07
Welcome Back To The Head heart and Boots podcast.
I'm Chris and I'm Brandon.
Join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses we leave this industry.
Are you doing, buddy?
I'm feeling really good this morning.
0:25
Well, that's great.
What, why?
Well, you have switched up my schedule a little bit lately.
Actually, I've just found like I was missing my morning coffee.
Coffee times with my wife.
Hell yeah.
I quit for a while.
We kind of went through a season where we were doing, we have coffee together, Bulletproof Coffee with like butter and all that stuff, right?
0:44
And then eggs, like I do eggs, right?
Because we're on this whole animal-based diet and On free ride.
So, it's like my morning breakfast.
It's like four or five eggs, and always a banana.
And that's, that's what it is.
And then coffee and Carolina, wearing a habit of doing that almost every morning, and it was great.
1:00
And then we stopped, and we started going to early morning workouts.
But, It was super crunch time like we get back and work out.
It's like jamming shower head to the office, you know whatever pack the breakfast with me, take it along and I just like you know, I prefer it not to be that hurried.
And so we've been switching that up and I've been back to that coffee and breakfast routine in the morning and then, but it means.
1:20
Then I have to work out in the evening.
Is it the early evening?
Yeah.
And so is kind of pushed back.
Our nights a little bit.
Yeah.
But right now, I like it.
Yeah, it's working.
I'm kind of a change guy.
I'll probably have to change it up in a few months.
Anyways.
Yeah I can be going back and forth myself.
I'm Kind of in an afternoon routine which I like it.
1:36
There's benefits to bowl.
I need to.
I don't know.
I'm the same way.
I think I do it for a while and I'm like, I get bored of it in order to stay disciplined.
I'm like, oh, I'm going to start morning.
So yeah, it's like working out the mornings.
I like that.
It feels good.
Yeah, I'm pumped up.
Yeah, but I also find two when I do in the evening.
1:51
If I work out one, I can eat right after like I'll just roll back home, dinner's, the next thing and then we have whatever is left of the rest of the evening.
Yeah, I feel like it.
Distresses me a little bit.
Yeah, you know, getting in there and grind it out.
So, And then whatever.
Yeah, so feels like a decent threshold to begin.
2:08
Okay.
I'm going to stop the work part and start focusing on family sphere.
Those kinds of things.
Lot of ways to skin the cat.
It is now this is working.
Yeah.
Hey I got a topic for us.
Well, I guess before we jump into that, let's Point towards our sponsors, we got a couple pairs I kind of used up the topic preview space with my little morning routine with their yeah.
2:28
Your Jazz there.
Yeah.
Yeah but let's, let's talk about our sponsors.
Before we dive in our first sponsor is the lift.
By.com lift, if I catch these guys are great.
We were just having a conversation with another industry peer of ours yesterday and brought them up because like it just makes so much sense.
2:44
Yeah.
In fact we had a client I think just a couple days ago that mentioned, holy cow.
Yeah.
Lift defy our reviews have been going nuts and you Jim not surprised because every single client that we've suggested it to has seen massive lift.
Yeah.
2:59
And their Google reviews from lift to fight.
Listen, lift.
If I there's other Competitors in the market and you and I've tried them as with previous businesses and, and they work, they just don't work as well as have defy.
And in our experience they cost more.
So it's the double threat, the triple storm the perfect, I don't know.
3:19
Lift defy, his figured it out, it's very reasonable price point less in our experience than other platforms that do the same thing and better conversion rate, they're pushing 20, 25 percent conversion which means if you're a good-sized restoration, come your to Thousand jobs a year.
3:35
We have several clients that are doing that kind of volume.
You should be expecting 200 or more reviews a year.
And how many of you are doing that kind of volume, but you're stuck at 90 reviews or 150 reviews, and you've been in business for five, six, seven, eight years.
3:50
It's probably time to up your Google review game, right?
Yeah.
And with some but hard-nosed, somebody make it turn key and it is with lift if I so check it out.
Reasonable cost.
Go to lift, five.com forward, slash floodlight Kind of a cool promo thing that we worked out with them but seriously at full price with no discounts, it's still over there.
4:10
Great Zach and his team just really do a great job hundred percent.
See in our magazine shell Blevins, just the total bad, a crew over there.
You guys have seen it.
I mean the proofs in the pudding.
She is driving a media team, that's just a force to be reckoned with.
They are all old over the place.
4:27
They're consistently bringing topics and training and focus on the things that move are the dial and the things.
Help our businesses grow and certainly a voice to continue to help unite us our voices in the industry and how we represent ourselves and our Brands and our team so please check them out.
4:45
See in our magazine, if you're not a subscriber do yourself a favor and get it done.
All right, let's get into this.
Okay here, I felt like I wanted to jump in and say someone like no that was wow, you just hit.
You didn't at all because awesome.
So okay, my topic dude.
Okay, so I've been wrestling with this a little bit.
5:00
So you and I are huge Advocates of and we talked about it a lot.
But I think we've always brought this up as maybe a passing moment or something that's integrated into a different conversation.
I just wanted to focus on it and that's this idea of really creating a process a system or a behavior that really focuses on inspecting what we expect.
5:23
And and again this is a phrase that comes up a lot if you're used to listening to any of our episodes or if you work with us on a Consulting basis.
But again today, I just want to unpack the concept and how How in our companies, we can integrate that mindset across the platform.
Another another way I've heard some other leaders that I've worked with talk about it is in a creating accountability Loops.
5:45
Oh yeah.
That's a good way right.
Where there's yeah where there's clear expectations set and there's a mechanism.
There's a process by which we automatically Circle back and check where the expectations met, right?
I love that.
I love that.
So before we get into this, I kind of wanted to set the stage without the It's bowls, write the four principles of execution.
6:06
Again, this isn't something that Chris and I made up I think this is a copy.
Yeah, so this is Covey input and of course, I mean many of you have seen and heard or a big exposed to their leadership development stuff, certainly a long time leadership for disciplines of execution.
6:22
Great book.
Yeah I want to see it's Cubbies son.
Oh, is it loaded with somebody?
But it's part of that Covey leadership organization and yeah, but a great book for disciplines of execution.
I just love how they can Simplify Concepts that a lot of us are exposed to on a regular basis, but we just have a difficult time turning into a strategy.
6:40
There you go.
We're proactively hanging in the pocket on those things.
So, so let's just go through those first and then I think it would be fun to have you kind of just jump into from your perspective.
Maybe we start with where you've seen the positive impact of this kind of inspecting.
What we expect and then we'll we're just going to Deep dive.
6:56
I think we're going to ping pong the concept A little bit.
Alright, so here's these four disciplines of execution, okay, the first one is focusing.
On the wildly important and in, you're gonna see how this ties in to the inspecting.
What we expect because ultimately, you're not going to be able to strategically live in these these disciplines.
7:15
If we don't have a methodology for inspecting, what what we're building.
And so for me this focusing on the wildly important, I think the tyranny of the Urgent, right.
All of us can see experience and have probably spent more time caught up in the tyranny of the urgent than we do normally Proactively running our business and that's part of the reason folks, come to us and need help from a consulting firm.
7:39
It's part of the reason why we do what we do is to help teams kind of, get out of that space.
Wildly important, though are those things?
We measure its the mission, criticals, you know, sometimes it's kpis sometimes.
It's core behaviors, attitudes, right?
It's the things that when we spend attention tracking measuring and deploying, they will move the business.
8:02
They'll grow.
They'll create some Ability, right?
They create a strong Foundation.
I don't know from your perspective, like what you've seen that and where that role, you know, where that's played a role in your career interest.
But yeah, you know, I think that my first exposure to four disciplines about by the way, it was like 15 years ago.
8:20
Yeah.
With.
Because I think it came in the books been out around that time it came out of time and I was actually working with the State Farm agent.
I was getting into State Farm business around that time.
Jim Kuhlman, hey Jim It's like, oh, that's still a good friend of mine, but Jim Jim Coleman time.
8:37
He's a top State Farm agent in the country.
Let alone here in the Pacific Park West and I worked with them in the early days and that was a key frame work.
In fact, the last time I connected with Jim he still very much operating through this 4dx.
Yeah.
Framework is obvious, and he's incredibly successful.
8:55
It's driven a huge amount of success and it was my first exposure to okay with in sales because if you're a State Farm agent, like, But your business is selling policies right?
And or servicing clients down that's what you're doing and it was my first exposure to somebody walking me through it.
9:13
What is that what are the wildly important things that we need to be hyper focused on and you know since then I think that that's been a process you know I've been focused on and sales within restoration industry and so forth.
But that was my first exposure of.
What really do we need?
9:30
What are the priorities?
Yeah, that we need to be zeroed in on it.
Of course, he did a really great job of identifying those things for each area of his team.
Yeah.
And how does that stuff feed up to accomplishing?
The be hags.
Yep, right.
The, the audacious goals we set up ourselves.
9:45
Yeah, I know.
I like that's spot-on.
I think that's a perfect example of once.
You see teams get really focused on the most important stuff and they do what's necessary to handle the Loose Ends to address those other kind of miscellaneous up-and-coming things you see traction.
10:01
I mean, these are the companies you use, you see, Making her out, right?
I think the other thing too about this whole conversation and that book that framework is that you don't have to get everything, right?
That is probably the most powerful lesson is, there are no perfect businesses, but the really high performing ones that we come across that we see ya, they have figured out.
10:23
What are the most important things and they are clocked in on?
I mean, they are absolutely locked in on those things.
Yeah.
You could find all kinds of other faults in their business like oh, they could be so much better.
Sir at this and that and they've agree with you.
Yeah, and be like and we're winning because we are hyper focused on the most important things that drive our business.
10:43
Yeah.
Yeah.
For sure I see mistake.
I think a lot of us make is we think we got to shore up everything?
Yeah, no really.
And I think honestly, if we zoomed out and look at what we do in our consulting company, it's we hyper focus on a few really mission-critical?
Yeah, Loops of behavior.
11:00
You know, I think ultimately we help teams identify what the wildly important.
Yeah, and then once they get that then mountains, get moved.
That's right.
I mean, if we think about it like our businesses are constantly a work-in-progress, yep.
Like they're just on a constant state of iteration that I mean that's a growing business so it's required.
11:17
But the reason that you can have that creative freedom to be in that constant state of iteration and development, the whole good to great kind of concept is because the team is already focused on the principal things.
The core things, those wildly important things that keep the business in a positive trajectory, And then you can have that freedom of you know this is getting a little better here.
11:37
We're spending some time showing this up, we're developing, you know, competency over here but the primaries are in Focus all the time.
Yeah.
I think it's the second one here that I, this is dude, actually, in full transparency.
I feel like every day, the more companies we work with the more leadership training and support that we provide that this act on the lead measures.
12:00
This concept has become so important.
And I find myself becoming more and more of a, I don't know, almost like a deer True Believer.
I'm a True Believer like a religious zealot.
You know, when it comes to this idea of acting on lead measures and the real concept here is is I think a lot of companies and businesses in general have identified what those kpis are that we can measure and then look at or report on so really rearview mirror type stuff so think about your PL think about like quarterly Financial results.
12:33
Reviews.
Think about like in a lot of cases sales like you know, sales volume, A lot of times, these are numbers that you look at.
But once you read it once, you look at that number, you're not going to affect change in and now it may give you some things to consider in the next push or in the next quarter to great and they're vital, mmm.
12:53
But I really love the idea of teaching companies to be very centered on.
If you look at it right now, you can still take action to affect it right now.
That when you do look in the rearview mirror through these lagging indicators, these measured kpis, you're going to have a high chance of success, right?
13:11
Yeah, so here's the other way.
I've been thinking about this acting.
Only two measures is control.
What you can control.
Oh, that's great.
Yeah.
Because there are so many things in business and in life, but we have, If we're honest zero control over.
Oh yeah zero control and we see this I mean just every area of Life most things we can't control what Can we control?
13:34
We can control the expectations and the standards that we create in our company.
Yeah we have control over to choose.
What are we going to tolerate in terms of now behavior that what are we going to expect out of repeat, all those things?
13:51
What are we going to expect out of ourselves?
Yeah, right.
Yep.
We cannot control how people respond to that, right?
And whether they excuse to execute to those standards but we can control what we allow?
Yeah.
And Control is leaders and owners as to.
What is the standard that I'm going to operate by and people that I decide to pay an associate myself with.
14:12
So those things we have control over, we don't have control over outcomes.
We also have control over what we say to clients or potential clients and what we promised them.
Yeah.
The kind of conversations that we choose to engage in with them, but we can't control when or if the clients going to say, yes.
14:30
Right, right, we don't have any control over that.
So, it's helpful for me, To think about this on the leading measures another way is control.
You can control.
Yeah.
And don't try to control.
Don't put a lot of energy into try and control outcomes.
Yeah.
I think that's great advice, you know?
14:46
I think too like if teams are really kind of ping pong in this principle around this idea.
The thing here is this is really leadership behaviors.
So if you as a team, so think about Department management right?
Team level management course executive and upper echelon management.
15:02
The idea here is Way, that you parse your time on a day-to-day basis, the lames that you stay in, right?
Is how much of that time is being spent where you're inspecting, right?
This is kind of the big Archie Theory here.
Inspect.
What we expect, how much you read your leadership, energy time resources and bandwidth is going towards this proactive guidance and inspecting of the team's core activities and behaviors knowing that those will influence those lagging.
15:33
Robles.
And so you know, things like we talked about this, a lot things, like the way, our MIT team start their morning stand to, you know, affecting things like the preparedness of your team before they leave your shop.
Well there's all these lagging Financial effects, right?
15:49
Consistency and Service delivery.
You know, the way that we leverage our time, meaning that we're doing it in a profitable way that ultimately affects the kind of customer experience that are our team delivers letters and it all comes back to Us just really dialing in on how good is your morning Stan to and are you inspecting it?
16:08
Are you influencing that?
That is the very first step.
Our team will take to execute the rest of the day and how we guide that is going to have Financial cultural and branding impacts, right?
But we can control it, we can affect it right now and have sincere impact on it.
16:28
You know we talked a lot about this with with sales, you know.
It's do we value the lagging?
An indicator of how many leads you generated and how much revenue you produce?
Well, of course, it's a business but it's hard to lead that what you can lead, what you can focus on, is the leading activities leading activities for you and I is like, what's your weekly Cadence?
16:49
How many cold calls?
How many leveraged events are you participating?
You can control that every single day you can have a very sincere influence on that as a leader that then gives you.
Right.
Let's pause on that because I think It's worth.
A lot of people are listening to this own restoration companies that they lead sales teams, they have sales people.
17:10
They work with, like, what if we found to be the wildly important?
And also kind of the leading measures that we can control when it comes to sales.
That's our clients have heard me say this, but whenever we're not getting the sales results we want, there's two reasons, there's two potentiality.
17:29
He's as to why why the business isn't coming in and and those two Reasons are either the quality of the activity.
We're doing the behavior, the, the conversations were having with clients the quality of it.
What are we talking to people about and the quantity of those physical social interactions were having with our prospects and our clients?
17:53
It is always the our success is always going to be predicated on those two things.
So you may have somebody who's a really genius.
Troll born salesperson, they're so good at connecting with people.
They're curious, they're they're having the right kinds of conversations with folks and yet they're not producing much well and it should be obvious, but it's not to us, like it's taken us years to really drill in.
18:19
On this.
They're just not talking to enough people likely, yeah.
Right.
Or the quality that you think is happening based on the way they interact with.
You is not actually showing up in the field.
They're not they're not being disciplined in terms of the quality.
A of the conversation they're having.
18:34
So they may say all the right things to you, which is another thing to happen with sales people, they tell you what you want to hear.
Hey, so talk to me about what your kind of conversation.
You can they know all the right things to tell you in person, but they're not exercising.
The discipline to deploy that in the field, right?
So again it goes back to Quality, it's always but of course, the piece here that you just brought up is the inspection.
18:54
How do you know this is really hard with salespeople because I even get duped I get sucked into the personality of sales.
People and we do this.
Also, with our Ops folks, they talk a great game and then when you inspect their actual field Behavior, there's a gap of discipline and it can come from a variety of things, right?
19:15
There's no there's no use or there's no value in judging.
Why somebody has a discipline issue?
Because sometimes they're going through a divorce or they had a big disappointment in their personal life, or maybe they started a side, hustle selling Mary Kay and it's distracting them from their day, who knows like it.
19:33
There's all different reasons and finding out the reason may be as helpful or useful, but it really just comes back to inspecting, are the behaviors that that person is saying they're doing actually happening.
And there is no, and I think this is true of sales is true of Ops.
You going out with your PMS, there is no replacement for getting windshield time or feel time with that person or individual.
19:54
It's just, you cannot figure out what's really going on without seeing them out in the wild.
Yeah, period.
Yeah.
Walk in a job with them and ask Them questions about what their process is that they're deploying.
I think that's Universal and it's probably one of the more frustrating things.
20:12
I think in managing sales people in this business, the probably any business is that when the sales aren't happening, like you expect them to the only way for you to really truly inspect.
What's going on is to get out in the field, you have to carve out time as a VP of sales or a general manager and owner whatever your situation is to go.
20:31
Observe your salespeople and it's you reversal.
I think the reality of it is is that like what you're hammering on right now, it's the thing that we can do with our time as Leaders to affect change in the sooner and the more consistent, you are in that shadowing, in that inspection of what we expect.
20:49
The faster, you'll net, the results you're looking for and or the faster you identify where the holes are weaknesses are so that you can address them.
And so, I think this carries over to everything.
I mean, we've been talking with teams that have fairly good sized coordinator stuff, right?
Cuz In a lot of volume and we are literally working with teams to help them develop processes for their leadership to inspect and dive into an effect change.
21:14
And these leading behaviors even on an Administration level, like the principal there on the ACT on the leading measures is I really encourage people that you're weak.
Your day-to-day activity should be as focused as possible on the way that you look at inspect and influence, those leading activities, in this is Kind of an interesting thing to do as a leadership team.
21:36
So if you guys have, you know, let's say Department management staff and you got a GM, whatever.
One of these strategic opportunities that you guys have is a group is start asking yourself the question.
Start with every department and begin looking at the business and then look at what are the things that are most important as far as a lagging measurement.
21:53
Okay.
So think about gross profit margin job, life cycle times collection aging you know, AR aging and then asked go backwards.
Yeah, so start with the result you want, okay.
I want a GP % on my mitigation jobs.
Okay, great, that's the landing place.
22:08
Now, walk backwards and say what behaviors or activities, do our teams conduct that ultimately have the impact on that number and then begin finding ways for you and your day-to-day Cadence to lead to and shadowed those activities.
22:24
Because if you're inspecting those, and they're in place and they're happening, consistently guys, you can almost start celebrating because the likelihood of you getting the measurements that you want, the the gross profit.
It margins, the numbers, you want very high Commander increase substantially.
So, all right, so hold that whole act on lead measures, are we doing the right things?
22:41
And are we doing them enough?
Yeah, that's it.
It's I mean it's that's it and and I you know again this we're kind of hyper focusing on this.
It's probably one of the most important things to me that I'm centered on right now.
In terms of these four disciplines is, when you have leadership staff, that is just really dialed in on leading activities and they're focused on the consistency of those leading a Benny's they're winning.
23:05
They're just if you look at the numbers they're winning, you know, because they're actively affecting that.
Okay, the next one, the third one super vital is keeping a public scoreboard.
You know, Chris and I are just massive Believers that the more transparent we can be in the things that were measuring and paying attention to.
23:22
We do two things, when we're very transparent with those one is we Empower our people to take ownership of the same things that we're focused on and then the second piece that we do is we make it very Be clear that we are not trying to hold the keys to progress keys to success.
23:39
It's these are things that we're doing.
This is our state that we're in right now and we have opportunities to improve.
We have opportunities to celebrate, based on how we're scoring.
So I just, I think there's very something, very empowering for our staff when they can very easily.
23:55
See, how am I doing?
How is that in comparison to the goal or the strategy, right?
And then have a partnership with your leadership.
Staff to know when and where to ask for help so they can continue to succeed.
Well, it's something to that.
I feel like is really relevant in the type of work we do in the restoration industry and Construction Services.
24:15
Overall is finding ways of how do we make that that whole public scoreboard, really natural and organic like like how can we build into our battle, rhythms are meeting structure in such a way?
That, like people kind of always know how everybody else is doing.
24:33
Like, Exact like in a production meeting, right?
As we're going through work in progress, right?
We're looking at the profitability those jobs, right cost versus income and we don't often think of those things as the scoreboard.
Like a lot of times when we say create a compelling scoreboard it's like a thing on the wall that says somebody's number one, number two number three sure but there's these other layers of scoreboards, right?
24:54
There's these other ways you can build scoreboards into everything you do like for here's another example.
Our after Action reviews that Creates an organic scoreboard.
Meaning when we take the time, routinely to break down a job, or a situation that we just went through a good or bad one, it doesn't matter, right?
25:16
As you start to walk through the process because an after-action review is just simply comparing.
Okay.
Here's our standard or expectation compared to what happened, right?
Where are the gaps?
Where do we succeed?
It's not emotional.
It's not blame assigning.
It's just let's walk through its get all the players that were involved and let's walk through each step of the process.
25:33
Process.
And let's just identify where, where were we on plan and where do we go off plan?
Whether in success or failure, everybody can see the components that each person brought to the process.
And if you do that consistently, everyone starts to identify.
25:50
The winning behaviors.
They can see who is consistently winning at their role and their activity in the process.
And it also becomes some cases painfully obvious.
Who continues to fail the team at their portion of the process.
26:07
It's right.
That's a scoreboard it is.
It's a scoreboard that everybody can see and feel that it's real.
Yeah, you know, yeah I think what your kind of highlighting is this idea of public and and this is going to lead to the fourth discipline, which is funny.
I mean, these are all very symbiotic.
26:23
I mean, they've done a good job of identifying.
Why these are important and how they work in conjunction with one another.
But the whole piece with the public, is, you're creating a sense of peer to peer accountability.
You can't hide.
Hide, you can't have to create a business where people can't hide.
That's right.
And if we're honest about the kinds of companies or should say, the kind of players that we need on our team in order to create those companies that don't just survive, but Thrive you've got to have good players and the reality of it is is that players know, when they're partnered up with peers that fail to deliver on a consistent basis that don't meet or exceed the demand and the standard and when we have a public scoreboard, there's kind of this synced I don't even know if that's correct term but it's this idea Saturday.
27:07
Yeah, it's this idea of we identified what winning looks like and then as a team we've committed to knowing if we're winning or not.
Yeah.
And the reality of it is is it has a real clear tendency to drive those that can't win off the team and reward.
27:23
Those who consistently win to remain on the team.
And ultimately, what happens with this is this pure piece where it's like, you're starting to cater to the winner.
Ders.
You're starting to gather more winners on the team because they can see at any given time when we're winning, right?
So the fourth principle here are the fourth discipline is this, create a Cadence of accountability and you can tell, okay, think about this focus on wildly important act on leading measures and then keeping a compelling scoreboard.
27:51
Will what are all these things?
Doing their ultimately working together to create this, this Cadence, this sense of accountability, the value in that is and and there's all Tools that you can deploy to help create this this environment.
28:07
We talked about that.
You just said the after-action review.
I think there's other things that we can do in terms of cadence of accountability.
Like, you know, we talked about creating a feedback Rich environment, this is that place, like the idea is as a team we're constantly evaluating how we're doing against goals, expectations and standards in.
28:26
It's not to create an environment where people feel oppressed or this weird pressure that there's a constant state of a Witch Hunt happening.
No, because when you have the right people on your team, they want to know that there's accountability, they want standards.
28:41
They want to have expectations.
They want to know what a winning formula looks like.
So they can be a championship member and this is how we can do that.
And you know, we refer a lot to like Clint Pulver and some of these other leaders you know Joey Coleman is got a new book out.
28:57
I know he's doing stuff centered around this but it's just this idea of creating a marriage between accountability and connection with your But you can't survive without the accountability piece.
And I think what we do is like often, how we address our clients and financials, right, is we're kind of afraid to talk about the numbers.
29:17
So then we inadvertently create a space.
We're talking about.
The numbers is uncomfortable, or it creates a friction point with our client whatever we can do the same thing with accountability.
We can treat it like something nasty.
Or it's this thing that we only put into place when people failed to deliver.
29:33
Ever.
And it's just so backwards.
It's so backwards championship teams are made up of people that have a clear set of expectations standards and they're constantly iterating to meet or exceed that demand.
So, there is nothing wrong with accountability and at the end of the day, it's the backbone for you to create a company that consistently repeats success.
29:55
All right, head, hardened boots listeners.
Want to stop here, just a moment.
And thank our underwriting sponsor blood like Consulting Group.
As all of, you know, right, you know, Brandon and I this is our passion project had hardboots is but it's also a way of more and more that our Consulting clients find us and in effect they interview US, write those even listen to show for a while.
30:17
You get to know who we are, right what we're about.
So if head heart boots is valuable to you.
One of the best things you can do is share it with your friends and it's been incredible to watch just the audience grow and we still get text messages from many of you about shows that you really like and impacted you.
30:33
So that's number one and please keep doing that.
Many of you have been huge, Advocates of the show.
We also just want to remind you to.
If you're a Restoration company owner, and you're interested in a partner in your growth, you want some help building out systems, developing your leadership teams helping set up the infrastructure for you to scale and grow into the company that you're trying to build.
30:54
That's what we do.
That's what we do is we come alongside Restoration company leaders, we help equip them and we help support them in that growth.
Trajectory so If you're looking for that go to floodlight gr p.com, potentially, we could be a great match for each other.
Another way that we really do serve our client base in our sphere of influence, is through our Premier Partners.
31:14
We work really hard to bet those folks that we believe bring a level of value to the industry that it can really be leveraged in a way to have a sincere positive impact on your business.
We take that very seriously, the folks that we create those kind of ongoing Partnerships.
That's not a check, the box kind of scenario.
31:30
It's, it's we really see strategic.
Alignment in the value that they bring, we see value in the way that their leadership teams and their partners are developed.
And we've done very sincere work of ensuring that these folks that we introduce our clients and our sphere to can actually create vetted value.
31:46
So go check out floodlight grp.com forward, slash Premier / partners, and see if there's some folks on there that you can connect with and begin developing, some other resources to support your growth and your business.
There's nothing wrong with accountability, but I think also All of us everything you and I talking and everybody listening to this there are times where it feels super shitty.
32:11
Oh sure because yeah.
Our ego like we I think all of us to one degree or another we derive, some of our value about what other people say about us.
Yeah right other people's affirmation of our work product are our success, all that kind of stuff is a big part of how we see ourselves.
32:32
Yeah.
And so at times, when we're getting that critical feedback of you weren't awesome, this go around or this quarter, your results have sucked course.
Of course, that's it it's not the appropriate language for us to engage in but you know what I'm saying?
That's what we hear.
Yeah, that's we hear sure.
32:48
I think, I think sometimes it's very easy to get caught up in that in that in, that accountability, that feedback.
And what we hear is, you sucked on this.
Yeah.
And our ego wants to LEAP to the defensive, hold on.
And we're then we're looking for all the ways we didn't say.
And it's difficult sometimes for us to, in those accountability moments.
33:07
But I think it within companies and I've seen this in my own businesses that I've run, is he almost have to be willing to go through that awkward, shitty feeling, yeah, enough times to where like you and your employees realize, okay?
33:23
Just because Chris is calling me out on this bad behavior, or lack of performance, whatever, doesn't mean he doesn't like me and he's going to fire me sir, right?
It's like getting him through that awkward stage of look, this isn't a firing conversation.
This is we got to figure out what went wrong here.
33:39
Yeah, so that we can change gears, you know?
Well there's there's a quality or quantity problem here.
Yeah.
You know of what we're doing and we're focusing.
Our self on.
Let's get to the bottom of that and then keep moving.
You're right.
You're spot-on.
And I think this is the tension that we wrestle with is leaders and we get uncomfortable.
33:56
But again this is why this for disciplines is so freaking amazing.
So think about how these all overlay on top of Other.
So one of the things that I've experienced personally is it is accountability sucks when you point out.
Something I can't fix good point.
34:13
Okay.
So again, it's like, if you think about it, it's like okay, I look at the financials at the end of a month and we just missed the mark and you come in and you tell me how we miss the mark, there's just this overwhelming sense of I can't do anything about it.
I'm a victim to what I just experienced and we can talk about that principally.
34:30
But but right, like we've set the stage, Or you did a shitty job and there's nothing you can do about it.
But when we okay, come all the way back to the top of these, okay, focus on the wildly important act on lead measures, okay, and keep a compelling scoreboard.
34:46
What are we doing here?
And when we talk about the scoreboard, again, we're aligning that with all these things come together is.
If the skill or board is predominantly focused on how we're acting on lead measures every time.
I'm having an interaction with my person.
We have the ability to right now.
35:03
Focus on something that will give them the highest chance of when that final scores posted the end of the month.
End of the quarter, they're going to be a winner on that board because what we're talking about, the feedback that we're giving while we're inspecting.
What we expect is all in this space where they still have the opportunity to impact and make a change.
35:23
And I think that makes accountability get easier to participate in overtime.
When the team is looking at the things, they can affect change in right now.
To ultimately succeed at the end.
And here's another way to think about this winners.
Want to know they're winning.
35:40
Like the only people on our team at the end of the day, if we're honest.
And I know this is a bit of an over simplification but those that don't want to see the score it's because they don't want to be accountable for a performance, okay?
Like I understand that not everyone's competitive, okay.
35:56
And I also understand that not everyone, that's competitive necessarily winning and those that aren't necessarily Super competitive doesn't mean they don't know what it takes to win.
But there's a reality that when you have the right players on the team and they're fully aligned behind your mission, your vision, your goals, what you guys want to accomplish, they want to know the score.
36:17
Yeah they want to see it.
They want to talk about it.
They want to know how to influence change.
They want to know how to up their game and increase their skill set.
So they have the highest likelihood of making it to the championship.
Like these things feed one another and the other thing too is having this kind of Of clarity because this all builds Clarity straight.
36:36
Yeah.
Having that kind of clarity.
It really goes a long way to reducing Drama.
Oh, yeah.
And anxiety on the team.
Sure.
Because when we don't have Clarity around what the winning behaviors are and what it takes to win and get promoted and get recognized and get rewarded in your business.
36:53
Then there's a whole political layer of how stuff really happens in your business.
That's right.
Right.
When we run clear on on how people are We performing and we inadvertently reward people.
That actually aren't doing the right things in the business, but they've just kind of position themselves in the right way or they looked good.
37:12
But underneath it there was dysfunction and they weren't actually aligned.
It creates a lot of anxiety and drama on this, their sure.
Yeah.
But when it's really obvious to everybody, who's doing the right things and winning because of it, it creates so much less drag so much less anxiety.
37:29
When people know where they stand.
It's and they know what goes into it.
Ooh, it yeah, it's like more and more people start to realize internally, shoot, I gotta get my shit together.
Yeah, I'm being lazy on this thing and that that's not going to produce anything good for me.
37:45
That's right.
And there's no way for me to hide it.
I'd look bad.
Yeah I looked bad at that meeting because I wasn't prepared and everybody knew it, you know what I mean?
Yeah, right.
It's like when the bad behavior is when everybody can see it because you've got the light of day shining on everything at all times.
38:02
Yeah.
There's nowhere to hide.
Yeah.
Well and I think for all intensive purposes and this is where it becomes, it goes from uncomfortable to actually very supportive in nature.
Yeah.
And that is we make it easier to do the right thing at the end of the day, when we have good people on our team, most of us, most of us want to do the right thing.
38:21
There's not very many people in our sphere of influence that literally walk out of the gate with malicious intent.
Rarely, do we have employees on our teams that intentionally want to fail miss the standard and produce a a subpar product that is so rare, right?
The reality of it is is they want to succeed to.
38:38
And so the reality is when we set that light like you said on the stage and everybody kind of sees exactly what's happening?
We remove those Paths of least resistance and people become more successful.
So okay.
So real quick recap and then I just I want a parallel this then with how do we inspect what we expect because that's really what a lot of this is pointing to.
38:58
So focus on the wildly important act on lead measures.
Keep a Telling scoreboard, and then create this, Cadence of accountability.
And here's how you do that.
Like here's how this turns into action, inspecting.
What we expect Chris and I are huge Believers.
39:15
And if you've come to any of our to day operational leadership seminars, if you work with us as a Consulting client, you're going to hear us really focusing in on where leaders should be spending their time and how leaders create value for the company and their position.
It has very little to do with their technical expertise and the doing Of things and it's far more centered on their ability to implement promote things.
39:38
And exactly, it's like force multiplier.
These are Force multiplier type of activities.
This is high level leadership.
Okay, well, one of those Cadence's, one of those rhythms is how am I inspecting?
How am I engaging my team on a consistent basis to ensure I'm in touch with my clients needs.
39:57
I'm in touch with my teams needs, I'm in touch with Our Brands, Persona, in the field.
The way we deliver customer Service, all the things when executed, well, create something that we measure and we go, oh, yeah, we hit it.
We hit the target, right?
40:12
So inspecting.
Okay, sales-wise from your perspective.
How are we inspecting?
What does that look like?
Well, there is no replacement for windshield time.
Yeah.
There's just none.
There's no replacement for going out on a cold call with your salespeople.
40:30
There's no replacement for you attending.
Sales meetings with them and it's not going to be a perfect representation of what they're doing the field because you're there.
Yeah, and it's intimidating when the boss is tagging along.
But what you what you should see is, you should see them over indexing on the right behaviors, you're gonna see a an exaggerated view of what they're really doing.
40:53
Yeah.
And you also like they're going to be on their best behavior because they want to look good.
Yeah.
And so you're going to see an exaggerated version of the expectations in the standards.
Yeah.
So, you can take that into account or hey, you know, if you've got the right person, it's oriented on the right behaviors.
41:09
They may organize and plan and be ready to do 20 Cold calls that day plus a couple meetings because they want to look awesome in front of you.
So you can kind of assume that on a typical day.
They're probably doing 14 but the colony.
Yeah.
But but the point is, is that you have to get out there and observe what is the quality?
41:27
Yeah, of the conversations are engaged in.
And, of course, those that understand our Master course model you've listened to No other stuff.
It's it's all predicated on humility and curiosity, sir, right?
It's less of the raw.
Let me tell you all about Arc XYZ company and instead hey, I want to I want to understand your experience with restoration.
41:45
No one understands you know understand what if any pain points are unmet preferences, you have with your current vendor.
We can see that our they engage in those conversations.
Are they leading by passing a flyer across the table?
Let me tell you about how big our Fleet is.
And we're IICRC this or that and blah blah blah and hey we can do CE credits for you and data data data data, are they pitching or are they discovering who that client is and what they need, right?
42:10
So we're checking the quality of the conversations and then we're also checking.
What is the actual quantity of activity that we're getting in?
Because most often it's really easy for sales reps to get into a rhythm of, especially the successful ones in my experience, they start to get some jobs flowing in and it's really easy.
42:30
Then for them to shift, their focus and attention.
To stewarding those inbound jobs and letting go of that business building activity, right?
So this, this happens with your great salespeople and your lesser sale vehicle both.
But it's always inspecting.
42:46
What's our quantity of activity and then what's the quality of it?
Is it the right kind of activity, done in the right modality?
Because another thing to what we see with sales in this industry is sales reps will over index on email and phone Outreach.
43:03
If you've heard me talking about this lately, because I'm troubleshooting this with some sales leaders in our, in our Network, in our Consulting portfolio that their tenancy because of maybe they used to sell software different different sales.
Methodology does not work in this industry.
43:20
Yeah, you cannot major on email and phone Outreach in this business.
Not you can't doesn't work, doesn't work.
Maybe someday it will but it doesn't right now and so it's what's the Ade of the Outreach and what's the quality of the conversations that person engaging in.
43:37
And if and you can't see that just by ask them questions because sales people are great at telling you what you want to hear, well no matter what, no matter what there's always filters.
And there's also something that breaks down when you begin having human to human connection and interaction with each other and really getting in and experiencing from your team members perspective, what real life looks like, you gotta see it, you gotta see it.
43:57
That is sitting here.
Yeah, yeah.
We see this, you know, an operation side.
This translates really well.
Well, and like an area might be, for instance, let's talk about construction.
Okay, let's talk about a Recon team.
Well, what are one of the ways that as key leaders, overseeing, that that Recon Department?
44:14
What can we be doing?
Well, we go do field inspections, right?
We take a chunk of time during the day on a consistent basis and we survey this this words, very important.
We survey a portion of our active projects.
Am I telling Recon manager, department managers?
44:30
They need to see every project.
No, we do not.
Not have the right staff in place.
If you have to see every job to ensure that it goes off successfully.
But we need to audit, we need to just like we would take a population.
Survey you don't ask the same questions to everyone you survey enough of that population.
44:48
That gives you a good perspective on themes issues and consistent patterns that you find in your business, the same thing.
So if we go out to inspect a project, we have an opportunity to really dive into the entire project.
And what I mean is we do a 60 degree of review, of all the parts pieces and people that affect that project, you really maximize your time.
45:10
That was selected, part of pieces and people are like triple piece.
All right?
So here's an example, okay?
I'm a GM, or I'm a department head over a Recon team and I go out and inspect a project.
Well, my tool is with me.
IE my laptop, my iPad, whatever you use, not only am I physically seeing the project?
45:30
But I'm going to administrative Lee.
Eat that project at the same time can check your documentation.
Check contract values.
Look at notes.
Do we know what's going on in this project?
Are we communicating consistently you know look at gross profit margin live.
Look in POS look at work orders right take a peek at the project as a whole I also highly suggest that you make connection with the subs that are on that job reach out to him talk to a pay house payments going house, invoicing and billing going how our work orders you know, house Clarity and communication.
46:03
Medication with my p.m. and then I'm going to connect with my client my referral partner associated with that job.
In the idea is, when I do that on a consistent basis, I'm able to affect change positively in the project right now.
If I see an error or an issue, but also what it's allowed me to do is I'm serving my body of work, and if I do that day in and day out on a consistent basis, I'm going to have a real firm grasp on how my team performs in the field.
46:30
Can we change it up?
We see different project managers projects.
No, but here's, here's what I think is really valuable with what you talked about and what this example means it gives us the ability As Leaders to create a relationship with our people that yes, we are going to look at the things that we believe are important to our business.
46:48
But as we do it, I'm here to coach support, equip and provide resources for you to continue to gain skill set competency, right?
And see success.
And I think that's what's so important about this concept in general is, This is breathed into the business from the entire organizational chart and it's done all the time.
47:09
Our team's just get used to knowing that when we inspect what we do, it gives us the opportunity to grow gain insight and competency, it's not a Witch Hunt.
This this isn't to find new ways to discipline our people.
If anything are a players, begin learning.
47:26
Hey, if my leader shows up on a project or gets into my files or does a ride along with me, There's an opportunity for me to learn and get more support.
Yeah, right.
It's not just to show there.
Is that, too?
It's an opportunity for me to show off and show my key leader that I know what I'm doing, and get the Kudos and get that, but it's also, hey, if I'm just honest, if I just, if I deploy the way that I deploy, my team's going to see how they can make me better.
47:52
Yeah, and that's really important person.
Really, I'm just gonna okay, gang.
I think we hung in the pocket, a pretty decent amount of time on those topics again.
These are, you know, we could probably do An episode on each one of those specific level, you know, it's like in some ways, man, I feel like we're on the therapy couch together because, you know, listen, I mean, we're a work in progress.
48:12
This is a journey and it's been really incredible for me as we've kind of changed seats at the table, so to speak, you know, gone from operating in the field to this Consulting business that we built.
Like the benefit that we have is we have lots of clients that are in various stages of adopting this.
48:30
Oh yeah.
And there's just such a massive opportunity for sale.
If reflection on how you and I even function and in our own business and in how we're training and Advising and Consulting our clients like we're still learning and getting better at this.
It is all discipline.
Yes, discipline, its discipline is discipline.
48:47
It's not none of us are wired necessarily for this to be easier.
I just believe it's a skill and a discipline you develop.
Yeah.
To focus on the right things and do them consistently.
That's right.
And I think it becomes easier as you dial in the frequency of this, The scary part of it for employees is when there isn't a Cadence.
49:08
Yes.
When it's like a big F up.
Yeah.
Causes us to hyper.
Focus on an individual.
That is scary isn't like oh gosh and then there's a whole pile of evidence behind them that you end up piling on to somebody because you had been inspecting for months for weeks or months.
49:27
But when it's, when we have some kind of cadence that's weekly every other week, three times.
Times a month, whatever, where it's just more like clockwork.
Like, the boss is gonna audit one of my jobs at any given time and if I screw up here, she's gonna say so and then they're going to redirect me back to.
49:46
Here's what needs to happen instead.
Like when that's the Cadence, there's nothing to get super scared of as an employee.
And normally what you see in those kinds of environments is we are is keyed in on dude, great job.
Yeah, affirmation that was a win, that's what we're looking for that.
50:03
Select so it's not things.
Don't have a chance to pile up, that's the big thing.
And, of course, all of us, maybe, maybe it's just me people.
We do this with our kids, we do this with our spouses, we do this.
In all of our relation to human, I think instinct is its to hide its to cover up our failings.
50:19
It's all that stuff.
But of course, the more we just make a habit of clearing the table to another way.
I've said it to folks, as we keep a clear table.
That's right.
There's nothing to get scared of.
There's no piles of crap that were afraid of somebody finding Oh, okay.
I had a personal disclosure.
50:35
This is a funny analogy, but my wife, yesterday, I had, my wife's Honda Pilot.
I have the little Honda hatchback that.
I just love and I drive it normally, but I was driving my wife pilot and she had spur.
The moment had to run out.
Get one of my kids is track practice.
So she hopped in my car and I know the audience has no concept.
50:56
I've been married to my, I've been married to my wife for 21 years.
Okay, and I was so embarrassed.
Because like I've just been caught up in, I have my wildly important things.
And my car is one of those things that I did not in that.
I don't index on.
51:12
I am not one of those neat and tidy like a my car is just like pristine ladies and gang it.
There's a few things that Chris and I can share and there are lots of things that there's no way too careful with the Lots.
Okay, careful with the lat.
I just my car is one of those things that gets me from point A to point B.
51:29
And there are times where it just really it starts looking like a hobo Camp inside.
Side because it's not a personal Focus.
It's not in call that wrong.
I know.
Who was it on the Shark Tank?
I felt really ashamed of this but like I was watching a Shark Tank Episode and he was like, before ever make an investment, always take a look at their personal vehicle.
51:47
Or when I go to high, I think actually, he said, whenever I hire a sales executive, I checked their personal vehicle because I tells me what our company rigs going to look like or something like that tells me a lot about them and like well, whatever you cancel.
Oh and by the way, they're right.
No.
But, you know, Hey, listen, we all have things that could use more attention.
52:07
But my wife, she takes the vehicle, I'm like, oh my God.
Car is such a big star and I'm so embarrassed and I literally text my wife, I'm like, listen, I'm embarrassed, you're driving my car, because it could use it to muck out into, don't go poking around because there's the E, like I gotta clean up the car.
52:22
Okay, babe, just just just returned the vehicle mind that.
I'm cleaning it this weekend.
No windows open.
Come on.
It wasn't.
It's like I whatever.
All right.
That might be, I don't know why.
This is probably a mistake me disclosing this, but hopefully there's somebody out there that relates to nordyke that they're embarrassed by the current state of their personal vehicle.
52:44
Where was I going back?
Right.
Exactly.
Right.
I'm not sure what the application was, but hopefully, I just made somebody for better about themselves.
Moving along.
Listen, if this stuff is valuable to you, if you feel a little less ridiculous because you listen to me and you're like, well, nordyke, Stephen you know, whatever.
53:02
Then it makes Feel better about yourself.
Please share this with your friends.
The best way you can print more easily the best way you can thank Brandon and I for putting together the head heartbeat show is please share this with your friends.
If you know somebody who's trying to grow and scale the Restoration company, right Point them towards floodlight gr p.com, tell them about us, get them turned on to the podcast.
53:21
It's a great way for them to interview us before they decide.
Are we going to hire these guys to come to a workshop?
Can we relate to these guys?
So they have something to offer Point them towards the podcast?
Check out our website, let us know if you want to partner with Us.
Other than that, I want to want to leave everybody with just a little project, something that they can take away from this, but if you could float the team's.
53:40
Okay, so here's a thought.
So just really quickly, remember focus on wildly important act on lead measures keep a compelling scoreboard and then create that Cadence of accountability.
Here's what I'd challenge you guys on.
If you're a GM business owner, go meet with your team on the next off-site.
53:57
The next time that you get your team together, for a quarterly or whatever.
It may be, some kind of strategic meeting in, Write them in to gaining a deeper understanding of what these four things are, how they influence our business and then I would say go to work, asking the question using your team to come up with the different ways that as Leaders, they can remain in the correct Lane and have an impact or influence the business through these four disciplines.
54:25
Get them talking about it, get them answering your question or answering questions get their input on from their perspective and their Part of the business, what they can be doing to create these disciplines and make the business.
Really be influenced by these things to all right?
54:42
Okay gang.
Hey, thanks for joining us.
We'll see you next time.
All right, everybody, he thanks for joining us for another episode of head heart and boots.
And if you're joined the show, he loved this episode, please hit follow only known as subscribe.
Write us a review or share this episode with a friend, share it on LinkedIn, share it, via text, whatever it all.
55:03
Helps, thanks for listening.
Helps, thanks for listening.