0:07
Welcome Back To The Head heart and Boots podcast.
I'm Chris and I'm Brandon.
Join us as we wrestle with what it takes to transform ourselves and the businesses we leave this industry brother how are you?
I'll be honest.
0:23
I could say awesome.
And how.
Yeah, it's all good.
There's there's been a bit of a cycle today.
I've had a bit of a cycle that I've Add a bit of a cycle, ask me.
It's like you would.
0:38
It's I'll ask you later.
How are you now?
I'm feeling better.
I'm better than I was four hours ago.
We had to do a little bit of a walk.
Get her shit together.
It's a little coffee.
Walked, it was necessary.
She's some some outdoor therapy.
0:55
Sometimes you just gotta gotta hit.
Reboot on the old mind before you continue to run your head into a brick wall.
It's true.
That is, that is life.
So abused listing care.
So let's exact let's move our something interested risks like and blah blah blah blah blah.
1:12
All right.
Hey dude, so I got a topic first, okay, so my wife okay what would start sooner?
Well that's the topic of my wife can.
My wife's is our topic a show now.
So my wife a long time ago and I'm not 100% where she heard it the first time, whatever the case may be, but she just says kind of repeatedly communicated to people the value.
1:34
And being for something rather than against something.
And it's interesting the last I don't know, just kind of series of weeks you and I have been traveling quite a bit.
So I've been taking in a few more podcasts than usual and there's this honestly, there's been a bit of a repeated Rhythm, to kind of this concept, that it wasn't real specific, it didn't really get into it, but more like, well, one of your favorite words that you like to introduce and in sometimes the most awkward locations as possible as love, right?
2:01
You you like to bring love into Said it, our industry, speak and not everybody's prepared for that.
But that's kind of what a lot of these podcasts were referencing was this idea of love in the workplace and professional relationships and not love as associated with sexual activity.
2:20
But just this kind of valuing of another human being sure at a level Beyond, just their utilitarian capacity or the resource that they bring.
So, anyways, I was just thinking about that a lot and I realized, you know, Going back to other topics, things like grit and things like longevity and things like, you know, sustainability and all these kinds of Concepts.
2:40
What I think this idea is really been hanging with me of digging into, what does it look like for us to kind of make a 180 from this?
I just am afraid of this.
I don't want to experience that.
I don't, I'm going this direction because I never want to be whatever versus I'm going hard into the paint because of I love or passion for what we're doing.
3:06
Mmm.
And I know it can sound a little Nuance, but I think there's some I think there's something to wrestle with their that has value to the folks that are listen to us.
So, that's where I want to go.
Of course, we got to do, we got some friends to thank right?
Yeah.
But yeah, you know, it reminds me of, yes, let's get into that.
3:23
But what's that famous book by either Earl Nightingale or maybe it's Dale Carnegie?
The power of positive thinking?
No.
Yeah, I don't care.
I'm not sure who that is.
Because it's kind of where my head goes in and of course it sounds Fufu.
I get it you know like we're going to talk about love and the power posit.
3:41
Let's just let it hang there.
It's gonna happen today, we're going to talk about love our positive baby.
We're gonna get in, we just set the stage.
We're getting into the before we do that.
None of this would be possible without our loving sponsors.
That's right.
Loving and and we love it there and we do love them first.
3:59
I'll mention is lift a Phi and you can tackle the other loving partner.
Yeah.
Zach and his team are building something really special and, you know, Brandon, and I've experimented with different review Gathering platforms over the years and they can be expensive and in general, we've never gotten awesome results.
4:18
Yeah.
Out of those other platforms low numbers and of course, like many of you are listening to this.
We all we all say, we ask for a Google review, but then when we look at people's Google profile or our own and we realize, well, geez, last year, we did a thousand jobs.
4:33
Herbs and we still have 98 Google reviews on our profile and it's like hooray, we have five star review.
But what what happened to all those customers that we asked?
That never actually submit a review, the reality is there's a lot of didn't ask or didn't ask her, whatever you we just don't know.
4:51
But we lift a fi, you know, because all you gotta do is have your admin team.
Add closed jobs to the list on lift defy, everything else is automated, they go to work and they returned a 20 to 25. % conversion rate.
So if you're doing a thousand jobs a year, you can expect that you are very likely going to grow your Google profile by 200 plus to fit, you know, reviews each year.
5:15
So imagine the impact, you know and if you didn't hear the episode, we did with Zach Garrard.
He goes into just how important the impact in terms of organic lead, gen from just your brand name and people find you on Google just shoots to the Moon.
5:32
Once you get this consistent drip of Google reviews happening, week in week out that there's a lot of value that Google Places on that.
So anyways, if you don't have lift defy, you should check it out, like you'd be doing yourself and your team.
A favor, the cost is just very very reasonable and Zach natima very easy to work with.
5:52
So there you go, go to lifteth i.com, forward slash floodlight.
Is it a?
We've got some special perks there for you.
Yeah, it's worth it.
Alright, see you in our Michelle.
It's funny man like I'm At the risk of sounding like a cheese ball, it's hard for me to refer to see in our as CNR because it's Michelle.
6:11
It's like our friend.
Right.
But anyway, see in our magazine, one of the oldest largest media platforms for our industry.
For sure.
She's been driving the ship now for some time has just done a, massive massive job of just really changing the shape of it.
6:26
I think in general and, and really expanding the, the resources that it is and and what they bring to the table for us is our stores and our Businesses and obviously for, for those of us that that serve the industry and aren't necessarily just the restorers.
Anyways, long story short, it's a massive resource, it's free to you there's really no reason for seeing.
6:45
Our magazine does not have a place on the team in terms of you know being in your toolkit.
So if you're not already you know a member of seeing our you're not already getting spur ever.
Yeah.
Subscribers the right work.
You know.
Thank you if you're not a subscriber I don't why?
Like just go subscribe.
7:02
It's worth it, I'm sorry.
You'll see some of our stuff is great.
Yeah, we love to be a part of that magazine and part of her online platforms.
Here's the thing between the podcast between the online media platforms between what she's doing live between the actual print media.
7:17
There's so much resource and she's chasing hottest content.
Totally, FrontRunner in terms of tech people influence on the industry changes coming.
I mean, you name it, she's kind of involved in it.
So do yourself a favor.
Check out seeing our and Tribe Casino.
7:35
All right dude.
So let's get into it.
Love, I don't know.
I'm not gonna allow you to take over this episode and to love, okay, I just want to warn you right now.
There's going to be some loving Yes, but it's not the whole premise.
Well, why don't you set the tone?
Because I have some thoughts.
7:50
I have, it's funny because I have I have some notes of some ideas from earlier this week that I'm like, it kind of fits with what you're talking about.
So, let's see where you take it and I may have some stuff to chip in, okay.
Alright.
So now the pressure, I feel pressure.
All right, so here's here's a common thing for me.
8:07
So you and I have talked about all sorts of kind of different things, like CVI Enneagram.
There's all these different things that kind of, categorize, your kind of default wire Yeah, and I'm an eight, if you're an Enneagram follower, I'm an eight, which is basically driver or charger charger Challenger is a term that that Enneagram uses.
8:29
The point is, is I tend to do make a lot of personal adjustments or changes in my life or growth because I identify something I don't like like I'm very critical of myself right now.
There hasn't always translated into me being the most awesome.
8:46
Of Myself by any stretch of the imagination but I have always been good at criticizing myself.
Let's put it that way.
Yeah.
And what, again, another thing that my wife is, is kind of brought to my attention is her experience.
She's been engaged in the environment where she's in constant connection with people like like her career path has always put her directly in face-to-face, interaction with folks, and for extended periods of time.
9:13
And in that, she's just learned over time.
And she's identified somebody in proximity to her.
That is very critical of themselves in quotes.
She's like I can almost draw the connection every time to how they are very much.
So others critical as well.
9:31
And so there's a common theme for a lot of people that kind of fall into my natural wiring that, you know, I'm My Own Worst critic which we all are to a certain extent, but the reality of it is is that slips way outside of being directed at us all the time and Bill Zaman leash is Spilled Out on others, but in addition to that, another thing I've just been learning over the years as I've gotten a little bit better of kind of stepping back and having a less biased perspective of how I'm acting right, which we talk a lot about.
10:01
It's like I'm trying to audit my behavior more as an after action review versus being ego connected to it.
Like, I'm just trying to assess like how did you respond to that?
Is that something you want to continue to do?
And as part of that, what I've identified is that I almost take this Of critical and others critical perspective in.
10:18
I've rolled it into what one of my primary motivators is running from this thing?
I don't like that.
I don't want to do that.
That I don't agree with which is all fine.
Except for what I'm learning is that when I'm excited, Lee chasing something for the passion of it for the love of it or out of service to someone, I love.
10:46
Love the motivation, the fuel in the tank seems to go longer then the kind of running from a demon kind of motivator that is common.
With just the I'm fearful of being broke.
11:03
So I'm ex yeah.
I I never want to have a business that struggles for payroll so because of that, I'm ex does that hundred percent, right?
It's just a, it's a difference.
I don't want to run from something.
I want to try to do a better job of identifying the things that motivate me because I'm excited about it where I'm going.
11:23
Yeah.
And and what's behind me are the things that I'm not consuming or chasing like a stray who gives a shit like it's not the point I'm motivated because I'm for something versus being motivated because I'm against something and I last preachy part here.
11:40
I think the reason I'm thinking about this so much lately is I'm so frustrated by politics, you know, you and Hi are so we're business owners.
We work in an industry that I think is fairly safe to say is probably leans more to the conservative side of in general Strokes.
That are not point is is that I just I just want common sense to be used when we're talking about politics and making decisions as they affect us and the people in our communities that seems hard to do right now because everyone is so against everything.
12:14
There's no for Like even if you look at some of the most activated and Loud groups, it's less about what they're for and it's far more about them promoting what they are, not what they're against what they don't allow or like and and so in my mind that's I think that's what's fueling this.
12:33
It's like how in the fuck have we gotten?
So wrapped up about what we aren't that, we've lost the ability to communicate what we're for.
Because my gut says in most cases even if If we identify social political economical differences, there's a lot of stuff that we could probably openly say that we agree in being for, right.
12:59
Not sameness equality, right value and people versus not like I think there's plenty of things that we can all look at and say, you know what, if we were all doing a better job being for something, would probably find out the lines a little more blurred than we think between parties and perspectives, right?
13:16
Take that we're or the, or I think you start to see the sameness of all of us.
Like, we all want, we all want to have good health.
Yep.
We all want to have, I think good relationships.
You know, whether we can articulate that well or not, I think, inside like all of us want to have healthy relationships.
13:36
We want to be liked, we want to like it other people, right?
And I think we all want to improve the standard of living for ourselves and the people we love, right?
So those are all things like We can all get behind.
Can't we all unite we can although night?
Yeah, absolutely.
Man.
The polarity in our world right now is I think it.
13:54
I've noticed just a baseline kind of drum, beat of stress.
Yeah, I feel and I've and I've tried to just notice it.
I think, you know, we've had these conversations about what I think amount to just mindfulness behaviors.
Yeah, like just noticing what's going on in my head?
14:12
What am I feeling?
What's that about?
Yeah, and Sometimes I can I can trace it back to Facebook or, you know, stuff where I'm seeing friends, just, you know, like conservative friends, a liberal friends and it's just man the vitriol and the in the pissed-off interactions that people are having it affects me even, just seen it.
14:34
I try not to engage in it as best I can, but it's almost drives you to the accused supposed to take a side like, where do I land on this?
And so, I don't know.
Yeah, it and part of me doesn't give a shit is a Out of it.
But man, I can easily get sucked into it.
My head space is so - and of course, right now, in a lot of the public conversation to is, are we in a recession or we nod?
14:54
Is it Biden's fault?
Is it not as like, what's what's going to happen?
Like, yeah, I'm seeing even the word depression, you know, start to enter some of the headlines and it's like, you know, I don't know if anybody really knows what's going on, but I can't give my head space over to this stuff.
I've too many things that I want in my life that are important and in this I can't have a material effect on all this other stuff.
15:16
Yeah.
You know we've talked about this with anger and I think in general anger seems to be a common I don't even know what to call it like a struggle or something for leaders.
Yeah it seems like it's a it's a common profile.
Most laudable.
I certainly 8 are known for their anger, the Dark Side of eights is that can kind of be seen as an asshole, you know, figure, when they get angry and upset and the way they tend to lash out and I think a lot of us as Leaders, we share those attributes.
15:43
Yeah, you know, anger is something that drives a lot of Us motivates us to make change and so forth.
And there is something powerful, we've talked about many times of just developing a discipline to notice the, when you start to feel anger, I don't know if you have any recent stories about this, but can I just feel like every single day that I have, you know, young kids in the house and such lot of reasons to be angry most days, I've just noticed the power of saying.
16:10
Part of me is just feeling really pissed off right now and even just noticing the art of noticing What's going on inside?
Me causes it to loosen, its grip on me.
Yeah, cuz man, and whether it's anger, or it's like, literally last night, my daughter's away on a ski trip thingy with her friends, who is just me, and, and Cara, and the boys at the dinner table.
16:33
And I was just in a funk, he was part of the funk.
I brought into this morning because I woke up and I started my mind, all the stories in my head, you know, came back after my morning, coffee for whatever reason, but at the dinner table, we were just Going around and hey how was your day?
How was your day?
16:48
And somebody asked me that question.
I'm like I had this one interaction that I was just I was really, I felt.
I felt small, you know.
Yeah, you know, you have an interaction with a downline employee or a colleague or a customer or something, and he just feel like like a dipshit, you just feel crummy and I was feeling that I was still just told my wife and kids and there was something powerful about just saying it out loud.
17:16
In and just noticing what was going on that, you know, they commiserated with me for a minute and we talked it out.
Like what do you mean?
And it's, I told him kind of the general story of this interaction with somebody and they just kinda there like I let scrummy, you know, and there was something about it, just kind of dislodged it.
17:34
Yeah.
You know my head like that story.
I just worked it through like yeah.
I'm kind of I feel pissed off and I feel crummy I kind of felt there was a piece of I felt insulted and by the time I kind of Well thought through it I'm like, well, I don't even know what that person's intent was.
I don't there's so many gaps in the story and I've kind of got out of my system.
17:56
So I think I took us on a big rabbit Trail there, but I think where you're going is, yeah, noticing what our motivation is.
And what's going on inside of us, I think is the first step to this.
Yeah.
And the fact, like, you talked about you unpack that whole thing of, I tend I tend to motivate myself to change by criticizing my cell, right, right.
18:15
And what is Look like to flip that script.
Yeah because o because here's maybe a little bit more reason why.
Right?
Because I think I think at first glance I consider some of this and I go.
Okay well well if if not wanting to be XYZ or being a bit critical about yourself and being willing to highlight these areas that are weak, or that need adaptation or updates, or growth, or whatever.
18:40
Yeah, there's not necessarily anything wrong with that, but I think what I'm trying to get better at identifying Is what is that sticky residue, right?
Then that this particular type of motivation or default?
I don't know fuel.
You know that you use to motivate you towards change or adaptation.
18:58
I think the same things apply just like death murder would talk about in terms of leading above or below the line.
Those, those below the line reactive kind of types of behaviors where the carrots in the sticks, right?
It's the threatening, it's the whatever like it leaves us.
19:16
Key residue.
I think the way that I'm motivating myself on a consistent basis does as well, one of the things I'm trying to work through as a leader, partially this, like in our own business like you know, of course the scale doesn't feel exactly the same but we're growing to, our little business is, is taken on team members and, and we're going to be doing a lot more announcing of what that looks like.
19:37
This year point being, we're moving forward, we're growing and in the context of our type of business, we're growing quickly and there's a lot of Stretching and navigating one of the comments that you made today on our coffee, walk was about the time I get dialed in on the skill.
19:53
Level that I need.
We freaking push, the parameter out again, and then we're back to this place of feeling like I don't necessarily have the skill set for where we're going right now, right?
And that can get hard to keep up when everything that you're using to motivate yourself, is coming from a negative place.
20:13
So here's an example, there's a couple things I can look at That right?
Like in this, this is just for some people.
It sounds so damn, navel gaze.
He, but here's an example, there's additional tools and resources that I want to create, okay?
I want to do that because really, our clients deserve it like like this is something that we can do for them and create value for them.
20:36
Yeah, the headspace that I most often coming from is more like, Are we doing enough?
You should do this and you should have fucking done it.
Four months ago, he should do this.
It should already be done.
Right?
Are you a pro?
Are you not a pro like all this crap?
20:51
That's wrong with me?
Yeah.
Versus you know what I really love my client and I want to create the best experience for them I possibly can because I value them.
Yeah the like that's an okay motivator.
It doesn't need all the other bullshit I guess is maybe the thing where I'm going with this and I think in a again sometimes you And I get on a topic and it's like, hey, I'm just going to kind of brain dump what I'm processing.
21:15
And if somebody else in the audience is like, holy shit, I've been processing something similar.
This is one of those, I don't even know if we'll do a good summary but, but the point is, I know there's a lot of leaders right now that are frustrated with their people frustrated with the current state of their business frustrated because sales aren't going the way that they want frustrated frustrated frustrated.
21:34
Okay?
You don't all of a sudden that doesn't go away but as a leader leading ourselves is there a turn that Could begin to try to make and say okay yes all those things are true right now but what's the value of running from something right?
21:50
Versus can I run towards something?
So if I could take the same situation you know what I'm very frustrated with my technical staff right now.
They really are struggling with documentation, I don't know, pick a problem.
Is there a way for me to look at that and say, look I really value.
22:06
The Experience, my employee is going to have I care deeply about my employees Is there something that I can do with our process or procedure or in my hiring practices that will give me the highest chance for the best opportunity to create a real win for my employee or a real win for us as a team again.
22:26
I know that maybe for some of us listening to that example they're like okay dude you just change the wording but I got a challenge you.
It like if your knee jerk response when you hear that example is you're just fucking saying it with a different phrase but ask yourself the Until an emotional impact.
22:43
If every single thing that you were chasing to fix in your business, you were doing it out of the motivation, to be the best to be elite to provide Extra Value to create win in relationship to it.
Create excitement and engagement in your place.
22:59
I my gut says, if I spent more time in that space, the problem solving that I have to do as a leader in a business owner, the weight of that would just bear differently.
Then when it's in constantly coming from the state of I can't I don't I Shoulda Coulda Woulda, I'm mad.
23:18
I'm frustrated, we got to fix that.
I'm afraid of that.
I mean how many of us make decisions and are motivated because of fear?
Really If we're honest, right?
And so, I again, I don't have the answer.
I just want to live in a state where I'm not constantly beating the shit out of myself and constantly running from the devil in the shadows.
23:40
Yeah.
Rather just be running after the shit.
I'm motivated for it'll probably create the same outcome, but I just think my soul will be happier when I get to the Finish Line.
Right?
Hell yeah.
I don't know.
So, that's where I'm at, man.
I don't know, dude.
Our thoughts are incredibly powerful.
23:56
Yeah, our thoughts guide everything we do as humans.
And a lot of times we're doing things out of bullshit.
Thoughts.
Yeah.
In fact, I'm trying to think what book, I think it was Eckhart Tolle.
He's a new Earth and he was, he was talking about this just sort of the, the way that our brains function, how they've evolved to like, you know, brene Brown talks about this, how our brains have evolved to fill in all the gaps.
24:21
Yeah to create these really Vivid Rich stories about why somebody did this or what that sound means that I just heard or how that person did that thing in.
This is what it means and what the consequences going to be.
We just start filling in all the gaps and a lot of times it's bullshit.
24:38
Yeah, Eckhart Tolle.
One of the things he says to is that all Most 90% of the thoughts.
We have are repetitive and nonsensical.
Yep, monitor yourself talk for just, you know, you get home today, you're sitting down with a beer, your city, your Hut, you do cook and dinner, whatever you're in front of the barbecue could throw on a steak on whatever it is.
24:57
And just consider that the kinds of stuff that just repetitively run through our heads.
And what are the repetitive stories that we have when we walk into our office, into our shop, what are the repetitive and, and, and keep a special eye for the negative ones?
He's right, right?
Right.
25:12
So much of it is, is not serving us and instead it's causing us to react out of these.
What?
Oftentimes, it's bullshit.
Thoughts and stories, where we've added in a lot of false information along with real information, and we started taking action and we started risking relationships based on how our so it's like our thoughts Drive, everything we do.
25:35
And so I think as putting a little more tension on, it is a real thing in an important thing.
Yeah.
Hey friends.
Hey, listeners were doing some little bit different with our ads.
So you've been a customer here in some ads with our favorite partners, and companies in the industry.
Now, we actually have a product page a partner's page on our website.
25:52
So, floodlight grp.com forward slash Partners.
Want to give you a quick rundown, though of the people that we partner with and we believe in as really go to resources in the industry.
The first one is restoration, ER p.com, right?
Erps are an important part of our sales process, our customer development process, and why reinvent the The wheel.
26:12
The restoration Erp platform is awesome.
It can be customized to your business branding, and all that kind of stuff and has all components to really create a value, add for your commercial client, accelerate job management software.
Everybody needs job management software and we have just found accelerate not only is their team, like just really great to work with.
26:31
When they get ideas from customers, they throw it into the product roadmap and they implement it, they're really advocating for the contractor and trying to create a software solution that works for Them actionable insights.
We recommend actual insights all the time, right?
All of us is restoration.
26:47
Operators are looking for TurnKey resources and training solutions that we can take our team to the next level and AI when it comes to estimating and matter poor.
And a lot of the other essential tools were using, they're an awesome resource and they're always coming out with new great stuff.
27:04
Yeah.
Super influential in the industry.
Super Tech University soft skills, development training for your technicians for your Frontline Personnel.
Let's face.
It Frontline Personnel.
Are the heartbeat of our company.
They are the ones that connect with our clients and create the customer experience.
27:20
There's no better investment than investing in the ability for those individuals to represent themselves our clients and our brands.
Well, so super Tech University Surety, they essentially are cutting down this life cycle between delivering service and then getting paid.
27:36
Stepping in removing the middleman in terms of mortgage companies refining that Blind.
Making sure that it there's at least friction as possible, so we can go out, do a great job.
And then our businesses don't suffer, we're waiting to get paid.
The money is coming, and it's coming quickly.
And then the last one guy's is lift the thighs.
27:53
Kind of a newer entry to the industry.
They're driving Google reviews.
So there are TurnKey partner that we can literally go out, provide a great customer experience.
Hand that name off to our trusted partner and lift the Phi and have them go chase that Google review, 25 percent conversion rate, which is industry.
28:11
A wide people tend to average, 5% of people.
You ask for review, actually, convert lift.
If I bumps at 225, we were such a big believer.
We are a customer and they've been generating all of our floodlight reviews and in a matter of a week and a half for up to, I don't know close to 15 reviews in just a short period of time.
28:27
So and I think people just underestimate what happens organically with your SEO search activity.
When you're getting these new and active five-star reviews from our clients and we just can't let the pedal up on that because of the effect on our business is long-term big deal.
So check it out.
Check out our partners page do business with them.
28:44
You won't regret it.
We're confident in that floodlight grp.com forward slash Partners.
Thanks guys.
I need the other thing you're feeling and I feel it, is, we started with this.
All of media is incredibly - right now, right?
29:00
It's just it's everywhere.
And it's one of the reasons why almost overwhelmingly nearly 90% of my social media like viewing right now is comedians.
Yeah, like I have gotten really into stand-up comedy, I love it.
I think there's a lot to learn for those of us who do any kind of public speaking training being in front of people.
29:19
I think it's just such a ninny It's a fun way to learn and really receiving and perceiving all the things.
I just, I frickin love stand-up comedy.
Yeah, but I also, part of that is, I just get depressed with all the negativity.
29:34
And I didn't notice it for a long time because social media.
So, addicting, you just find yourself scrolling through all the shit.
And I just started to notice God.
I just feel crummy.
Yeah.
And so, I start watching more comedy.
It's funny, my wife and I like, hey, do you want to go to bed, early?
Let's watch some fun.
He's, you know, boy, just because it makes you feel good.
29:51
Is makes you feel like shit.
Yeah, with all our store, Apple.
You know, that's kind of our, our normal operation at the end.
It isn't it training, you know, often will go back to the hotel and or Dash our food.
Fire up some comedy writer of some YouTube and watch, you know, comedy special on Netflix or something like that?
30:08
Yeah.
I mean, it just it puts me.
It's a, it's a healthy place for me.
Yeah.
And I just, I think people are hungry all around us, including ourselves for positivity.
Yeah.
Here's just a really dumb, simple example.
Okay, so I was at my CrossFit gym, Monday morning.
30:26
It's 5:30 a.m. not a very positive time of day for most of us.
It's like I forced myself.
Currently not the easiest know probably forced myself to get there.
But anyways, there's this other dude I can't remember.
His name is brand-new and I whatever is limited and ask him but we were doing front rack squats which are very challenging those of you that than the gym for most people very challenging.
30:49
I don't put a ton of plates on my Our, when I'm doing front squats anyway.
This, I walked by this dude, and he is a full rack of weights on the bar, but two or three 45s and have significant away anyway, and he's front squat.
And I've, no, I don't know.
31:04
This guy is like his mighty beasts, first workout or anyway, and I had formally introduced myself yet, but I just walked past and I'm like, holy shit, dude.
Full rack man.
You know, right on it.
This is how I talk when I'm not on the microphone.
You talk like that on any smoke tube.
All obvious truth and he Mild.
31:22
Hey it was like right on.
Yeah he's like yeah rock on, you know.
And anyway I went back to work and then like two minutes later he's like hey by the way dude like an awesome mustache and and I felt good and I just I know this seems I don't know whatever in that moment I just observed how powerful I misses and how contagious it is and I had a friend, I had several other examples of that and it's just something I've been trying to lean into it.
31:51
To say the kind things that I think in my head.
Yeah so I think maybe I even mentioned on a previous podcast I was at church a few weeks ago and we had a new worship leader, you know, singing and playing guitar or whatever up front, you know, I sing and play piano and so you know I like I have an ear for that stuff and he was awesome and I thought, you know, I'm going to go tell him, I'm going to go tell him how great he did.
32:13
Yeah.
And it just created this rad moment where I could I could tell it was gratifying to me one, it was for him.
But it felt really gratifying to encourage him.
Like it was obvious.
It was an encouragement, like the look in his eyes.
32:29
The the conversation that we had subsequently?
It was like an okay, there's this kindness is powerful.
Yeah, and I think part of it too is being kind toward our self, which I think especially in the trades, you know?
32:45
I say this a lot because I'm from outside.
The tree, I didn't grow up, I didn't grow up in the trades.
And what I, what I see a lot, What I saw when I first got in is there's just this just pull yourself up by your bootstraps, quick complain and don't talk about your feelings, there's just a like it get shit done and part of that is necessary.
33:02
And I hire I admire it.
I like it.
I'm drawn to it, sort of the hustle of our industry and and it's fucking toxic.
Yeah.
If we don't manage it.
Yeah, like if it goes unbalanced.
I think all of us have either worked in a team or were in a team or maybe Maybe you're a leader and you've created this, you know?
33:26
Hell yeah, get our shit together.
Go, you know, rock people's face off, you know like like you've established your entire culture around that week.
You quit your complaining, you know, all this kind of in and I think you know what I'm talking about.
There's a cost to that kind of culture.
33:42
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
I think ultimately it creates environments at times where people can't communicate, they're not willing to share what's really going on.
You're not Working with truth.
A lot of time you're working with either with posturing or, you know, compartmentalization with not truth which really limits our ability to affect the healthy kind of sustainable change and our business.
34:05
It's contagious anger and frustration, and sadness, and loneliness, and all these things.
They're contagious.
It just like kindness.
Yeah, I was gonna say, I think almost in a way and I think this is what's interesting, the That we don't often most of us don't recognize this.
34:24
I actually think that positivity is far more contagious.
Yes.
Like it's almost like you ever, like, all day, you were just running and gun and maybe you were doing it.
Definitely hit the coffee all day.
You know, you'd grab the Coke Zero at some point, but you just haven't done a good job of taking in water.
34:45
And then later that afternoon, or evening, or whatever, you take a glass, a cold glass of water, and those first full, Laughs.
It almost feels like you can feel it go through your entire body for your feet.
Yep.
Right here.
Like I literally just felt water.
Go into my entire system.
Yeah, sometimes when I experience somebody doing something out of kindness or carrying or they share something positive, it's like the soil is so excited for water that it's the contagious.
35:13
Level is 10x all the other shit that we're used to being, you know, influence by that negative side.
So I almost First, it's like four teams that start deploying more focus on the positive spin of why we're doing something or what the value is, or why we're passionate about this outcome.
35:32
I think that stuff like the team's absorb it so much faster because they're so desperate for it.
Whereas I feel like the negative stuff, the sticks.
These other kind of - More - based influences or motivational factors like you just dumped in that shit in an already full.
35:52
So, it's like, it's Landing.
It's obviously, it's not allowing that that level to deplete in any way.
So, they're just kind of, in a constant state of Fed Up by negativity versus, you know, kind of doing this 180, or this engineering a different path.
36:07
I guess.
I don't know.
Talk a lot about marriage and family and kids and all that stuff.
I've been really trying to hang on, it's funny, you brought this up because I and I realized we've kind of gone hit on a few topics here but this theme of kindness And positivity it touches so many things.
36:23
You know, and as an apparent one of the things I'm noticing is just the power of me noticing.
Like I said, I'm really trying when I when I have an encouraging thought or an appreciation for something, I'm really trying to verbalize it like in the moment just to say the thing even a grocery stores.
36:44
So I have this there's a natural grocery store that I go to, to get some whatever.
If you're such a hippie dippie, I totally am.
Natural grocery store, and it's ridiculous.
I had to go pick up some grass fed pastured beef pork or of course, you didn't.
Huh?
Yeah and some organic dried, mangoes, whatever, don't make fun of me.
37:04
Leave me alone.
And there's this Checker who's always there, and she's just a cool person and she's fine.
She's like an artsy fartsy person.
She's going to art school.
And, every single time I see her, she's got like this crazy makeup and I'm talking like, movie Set kind of makeup like she just has these different colors and it looks cool.
37:22
It's not weird.
It's just like wow man, that's incredible and so I'll compliment her every time I see her.
I'm like, wow.
My God, that looks amazing.
That thing you that the pink and purple and blue hair that you did.
I'm like, oh my God.
It looks like a My Little Pony hair.
She's like, oh yeah, that's totally.
What inspired it.
You just such a weird conversation Tony man.
37:40
That is a sister had of that's a dating game like the rainbow hair and she's yeah.
It's I told her that she's like, oh my God.
That's what I was part of the inspiration or whatever and it's just such a like it.
Feel good when I do that.
Yeah.
And check and see it in her eyes.
37:55
She feels lift it up.
Yeah.
As I say this, I'm like, God, I've been, I think I'm generally a fairly kind person, but I'm also very driven.
And one of the things that comes to mind here, I'm judging myself.
But one of the regrets I have is I often just I am so zoned in.
38:13
Yeah, I objective.
Yeah, I'm getting up, I miss all those opportunities.
Yeah.
And it's like how much encouragement and And building up of my team, because I've owned different businesses and you and I built teams together and stuff like that.
It's like, there are so many missed opportunities in my wake so many.
38:33
And I can also think to, you know, my first 10 years of having kids, I struggled, struggled to figure out this, all this stuff, like, how to how to build businesses and, and still manage my anger, and my mental health and stuff, one with kids.
And now I'm tuned in.
38:48
I think of all the missed opportunities of just My kids, insane positive things because with my kids at notice this over and over and over and over again, particularly my boy, my middle boy.
Like when I'm regularly complimenting him on stuff.
I see when I'm regular giving him the fist.
39:05
Bump of like, hey dude, I saw those cool man.
You know, when I'm, when I'm listening to him, play guitar in his room and I just go poke my head in and I make it a point, like, do that riff was awesome.
And like this a new song is like a new thing.
And yeah, you know like when I just went unconscious, Enough to do that stuff.
39:23
Everything else gets better?
Yeah.
And I've actually noticed it's even deeper than my relationship my boy because we don't have a giant mcmansion.
We live in, you know, we're all like you hear stuff like me home and to stand and stuff in the evenings are.
We're all here.
And what's going on the interactions with each other and the other family.
39:39
And it's like when I'm tuned in to what's going, well and things that I like, and I'm complementary and stuff with my wife and my kids and everything else, it affects the Whole rest of the house, like my daughter who's in her room chatting on whatever, you know, she still hears that stuff like it creates a positive energy in our, in our house, we're all of us like to be home more, right?
40:06
You know, whereas I don't know if any of you have teenagers but I feel funny.
I had this conversation with a client.
He's like, did you ever feel like you just wish your kids would leave and move far away.
And I'm like, he's like, cause I feel like a bad person when I say that I'm like, are you kidding me?
You know, I have teenagers right now and I've thought about boarding school about every third day for the last two years.
40:27
You know, my wife likes to reference.
Hey, I love you all the time but sometimes I don't like you.
Yeah, that's how I feel about killing kids and I'm sure they feel the same way about me from time to time.
It's real life.
But you know part of the reason why I feel so negative is because I'm focused on the nose.
40:43
Yeah, I'm not when I'm focused on what's pissing me off about my kid or my employee or a client?
That's not what.
Responding the way I want.
When I'm focused on how pissed off I am.
I don't see any of the good shit.
Yeah.
And I think it comes back to that whole Lubbock love tank.
41:00
Yeah, it's all about that.
And it also is about ourselves, you know?
Yeah.
It's like when I'm constantly criticizing myself, I'm making withdrawal after withdrawal after withdrawal and then I get home.
I feel like shit.
I'm at the dinner table, I feel crummy, it's because I've been bashing myself the whole day.
41:17
Yeah, I've been regurgitated that that interaction In with whomever, that made me feel small.
And I'm also, like assessing, what did I do wrong?
How did I screw that up?
Well, how did I contribute to them?
Treating me that way or saying that thing as just a?
41:35
I'm just I'm locked up in it?
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's not necessarily yielding.
Any kind of outcome you can work with.
No, I think that's the part of us that, or part of me, that's that's been wrestling with.
This is, is i-i'm just asking myself the question is that methodology?
41:50
Educating me.
What I want.
What I want to experience, moving the needle.
Whatever you want to call it.
Yeah.
And I think more times than not when I do a bit of a detached as best as you can review of that.
I'm just not seeing what I wanted to anyway.
42:06
So it's not even, it's not even that it's actually working, all that.
Well it just tends to perpetuate itself in this negative perspective.
Listen man, I'm I'm feeling a little self-conscious and vulnerable right now, okay.
All of this personal sharing and Things and love and kindness conversation and we need to get back to the surface or what do we.
42:26
I think we should plan the plan.
We need to get back to the surface.
Okay.
Alright so here's here's kind of where we started.
I think we're going to just kind of a summary, there's a natural tendency for us to get really hyper focused on the things that aren't working and using that either fear or I'm against that I'm against this competitor.
42:46
I'm against that company, you know, whatever the case may be, when we get stuck in the Core, everything is from judgment guilt, shame fear.
I mean you name it, you guys can come up with your own thing that you believe is your category.
The reality of it is we all have them we probably all could call it the same thing but we won't Whatever that thing is when you get stuck in that and that is the primary motivator.
43:11
There's something not sustainable about it.
There is negativity.
There's, there's some kind of sticky residue that's coming from that and I think there's more health And Longevity when we're motivating ourselves and our teams from a place of what are you for?
43:27
Yeah, right.
Like, what is it that you are after?
Who are you?
Not what you're not like, everybody is very good at saying, what they're not what they're against and none of us tend to be very good at very clearly articulating.
43:43
But what are you who are you?
Where, what are you for?
Where are you going?
And it's interesting too because I don't want to spend Back up.
But there's this reality, that our teams, and our employees thrive in an environment where they have clean vision of where they're headed.
We'll think about that.
43:59
Mmm, what is a Clear Vision of where we're headed?
It has nothing to do what we're not.
What were afraid of what were running from everyone?
If they ask themselves that question, they're going to default to were want to be a four million dollar company.
44:14
We want to be an 80 million dollar come, we want to be an elite restoration outfit.
We want to be See, stay in that pocket.
Yeah.
What do we want?
What do you want?
Who are you?
What do you want to be aspirational?
Where are you headed?
Stay in that pocket and I just, I don't know how this all applies, I think, if anything, it's just like ask yourself some questions, like when you're in this place where every comment in your mind is about, this is not working.
44:41
I'm frustrated with this.
I can't get enough.
I'm sick of this.
I'm we gotta fix this because it XYZ Do a little bit of an exercise.
Hmm.
Is there a way for us to respin that and be like, okay, I started frustrated.
44:57
What am I excited about?
I do.
Okay, I have to, I don't like that word, which one it.
Oh, spin it.
Spin it and I I don't know that you mean it this way but like I when I hear spin, it takes me back to my car sales.
Today is actually way back like 15. 16 years ago, when I sold cars because it goes Car Sales, it doesn't have to be this.
45:19
But it's just very it can do this.
Yeah, I can be kind of slimy and spin doctoring and like, oh yeah, I see what you're saying.
That whole like this.
Yes, you've kind of thing.
Yeah.
And if sounds fake spinning those Shaker faking it or whatever.
Whereas I think what what you're talking about and what we're talking about is Shifting it.
45:35
Yeah, it's, it's choosing to look at the other side of the coin.
Yeah, you know.
Yeah, I'm focusing on the negatives and because of that, I can't see.
Yeah, the positive I can't see what I'm grateful for in this situation because I'm so fucking hyper focus on the negative.
45:54
And if I just pause and turn The Coin over, I have that opportunity be like, oh shit.
Yeah, we have this other stuff going on.
It's really amazing.
Yes.
Yeah, anyway, you know, I think you're right on and it that is it's the shifting its being intentional.
46:11
I think that's a good.
I think that's a good point.
It is intentional.
It's not polishing a turd is what I'm saying.
Exactly.
Yeah, it is not a fake.
Trying to Lady the positivity, know it's legitimately stopping your lizard brain from controlling the cycle that you're spinning in so that you can get focused and oriented on the other aspects of the truth and reality that you live in that you can do switches out to stuff is happening.
46:38
There's a lot of positive things happening in our businesses, in our relationships, in our homes.
You know, it's funny like I know we want to wrap this conversation up but this this it's very interesting to me.
Man, for all intensive purposes, right?
We can look at our business and there is thing after thing.
46:55
After thing that lines up, I'm going to give you a Cheesy example.
That just hit me this this last couple days.
So you and I right now are interviewing consultant, right?
And we're also onboarding for the first time additional media, social media, support staff, and things like that.
And for those of you that aren't religious, the point will still be the same here.
47:14
So, hang in the pocket.
I literally started yesterday in a dumb head space.
And I started getting very frustrated.
We're doing some transferring of using certain software systems right now that have created more hassle than I was.
Anticipating course.
Right, surprise, surprise we're stressed out about the fact that there's some pretty key things that we need to do as we onboard new team members to be good leaders to them, like, they're all this stuff, right?
47:39
And I'm starting from this place of, I'm frustrated, I have to do these things.
I've got the weight of this.
Other thing that I need to do and kind of Uh, this is my episode for my wife.
My wife is literally like showing me via text message things, like our new team member saying something like man, it was really great to meet everybody day.
47:59
I've been praying for this for a long time, right?
Or like, if we think about the caliber of people that we're talking to you right now that want to look at what it would be like to be a part of our team.
Like they're so much positive weight in those things.
48:16
And somehow, I spent the bulk of my Day being totally drilled in on the negative aspects of some of the stuff you got a fucking wrestle with like you just is what it is, right.
Dude.
Speaking of that, I could see you did a great job running our first staff meeting that's good yesterday.
So there we have our own like we've had staff meas but it's been a small group and that group is getting bigger now.
48:36
And I could just, I could also see, just the light in Brandon's eyes, like, with multiple people up on our Zoom screen for this meeting is just there.
Like all of us have been really hungry to grow and expand the team.
And get back to handle.
He's like, yeah, because we've always had big teams around us, you know.
48:54
And it's really fun and you're exactly right man.
It's like, amidst, all of the normal bullshit.
That's good.
Becoming you step back?
And you're like, wow, now there's some really important things.
We can be grateful for, That's it, man, that's it.
49:10
So like let's sign off with this guy's look around, look around at your business, look around at your family's, look around your sphere of influence, look around.
Think about your friendships think about other business owners that, you know, and have some kind of camaraderie with what are you for?
49:26
But what what's pause, right?
Like what, what is it in your business?
That is dialed in?
What do you have to be thankful for?
What can your team be chasing?
Because of the passion for it, because of the love for it because of the excitement around it.
49:41
Because it's aspirational versus I'm running from something, right?
Let's stop being Ston what we're against and really hammer down on, what do we for, what are we for?
And like, always, we try to close out the show.
49:58
If you love The Head hardboots podcast, if you enjoy Brandon and I and the guess we bring on, if you're getting something out of his, the best, it's free.
Yeah, it's free.
It's free to you.
But there is a cost and the cost is would love for you to help us build our audience and build the community here at had hardened boots.
50:16
We do here that it's helping people.
You know, people appreciate it and we're committed that, but if you can help us make a more sustainable, you can do that by sharing the podcast, telling your friends about on LinkedIn.
Certainly becoming a subscriber yourself if you just kind of been intermittently popping in be a subscriber.
50:32
So you get all of our newest episodes.
If you need one-on-one Consulting, our team is growing, our capacity to serve the industry is going to significantly ramp up this year and so if you're looking for a partner, if you're looking for a partner to help your company grow, And adapt to the changing environment.
50:51
We would certainly love to chat.
You can find us a floodlight grp.com.
You can also message, Brian and I both on LinkedIn and I'd recommend, if you're not already, please follow us on LinkedIn.
Follow floodlight for all of our stuff, watch for more videos.
We've got some cool stuff that's going to be coming out on LinkedIn and Facebook.
51:08
We have a, we have a full-time social media manager.
Now, how fancy is that?
Anyway, I think till next time, thanks, we'll see you.
All right, everybody.
Hey, thanks for joining us.
For another episode of head heart and boots.
And if you're joined the show, beloved this episode, please, hit follow only known as subscribe.
51:27
Write us a review or share this episode with a friend, share it on LinkedIn.
Share it, via text, whatever.
It all helps.
Thanks for listening.